- [Reporter] North Koreans weeping and wailing,
collapsing and mourning after learning
of the death of Kim Jong-Il.
- [Narrator] This reaction may seem extreme to you,
but to the people of North Korea,
they were mourning their God.
North Korea, the tiny isolated country
with the capabilities of mass destruction.
With hostile relations in the West and increasing tension,
will the Kim dynasty survive?
The civilians adore and worship their communist dictator,
or is this all a show?
From the country's founding in 1948
to the modern day totalitarian regime,
this is the entire history of North Korea.
The birth of North Korea, 1946 to 1953.
Japanese-occupied Korea.
The entire Korean peninsula
was under Japanese occupation after 1905.
Japan's occupation was unquestioned by foreign powers,
and it presented its occupation as a civilizing project.
For the Koreans, the story was quite the opposite.
1,000s of gorilla fighters bitterly resisted Japan
until 1910, when they were all but destroyed
and Korea became fully part of the Japanese empire.
The story of Japanese-occupied Korea
is one shared by many colonies.
Industrialization and economic expansion came
with discrimination against the native peoples
as wealth and resources were siphoned away
to the imperial masters.
The initial gorilla resistance was over,
but the resentment of the Koreans did not go away.
Japan ran Korea like a military colony,
with armed teachers in schools
and a massive militarized police force
overseeing all aspects of life.
Also, like many colonies, they longed for independence.
With the end of the first World War
and all its promises of freedom,
Korea agitated for its independence.
Protests swept the nation in 1919,
which the Japanese put down brutally.
In one case, they locked 100s of protestors inside a church
and burned them alive.
However, the tide couldn't be stemmed.
The wave of Korean nationalism rose,
and at its head were the communists.
(dramatic music)
The rise of Korean communism.
Communist movements were common across the world
in the early 19th century.
Galvanized by the success of Vladimir Lenin
in the Russian revolution,
the communists promised wealth redistribution
and end to profit seeking and imperialism,
and a new prosperous beginning for its people.
Time would put those promises to the test, but the dream
of the communist utopia enchanted countless people,
especially in Korea.
Korean communists quickly became the tip
of the anti-Japanese spear.
Numerous gorilla and civil groups emerged in the 1910s,
'20s, and '30s,
trying to achieve an independent communist Korea.
The Japanese responded with firing squads,
prison time, and terror.
This killed many gorillas and forced others to flee,
including a young man the world would come to know
as Kim Il-Sung.
The Rise of Kim Il-Sung.
Kim Il-Sung was born in 1912 near Pyongyang.
His early life is drowned in later propaganda,
but it seems he was raised by Christian parents
who escaped into China when he was still a child
after getting involved in anti-Japanese activity.
In China, young Kim fell in love with communist ideas.
China had its own active communist movements,
which Kim joined as soon as he was able.
In 1931, he became a card-carrying member
of the Chinese Communist Party
and got involved with anti-Japanese protests
and militant action.
When Japanese forces invaded Manchuria in 1931,
Kim joined the resistance hoping
to drive Japan out of China, and eventually his homeland.
Kim proved to be a successful gorilla leader.
He quickly worked his way up the ranks
with successful strike after successful strike,
operating in both China and Korea.
In 1937, he led 200 gorillas
in the Battle of Pochonbo just across the Korean border,
where his forces defeated Japanese soldiers
and burned down a police station
and other occupied buildings.
The victory put Kim Il-Sung on the map
and made him one of the most famous gorilla leaders
in East Asia.
For later North Korean propaganda,
it was the true start of Kim's path to power.
Kim himself wrote about the battle saying
that "the flames over the night sky of Pochonbo
in the Fatherland heralded the dawn
of the liberation of Korea,
which had been buried in darkness."
Kim and the Soviets.
Kim's success earned him the nickname of "The Tiger."
The Japanese military sent out units to hunt him down
and may have killed his secret first wife,
which forced Kim to retreat into the Soviet Union,
where he was officially enrolled in the Red Army
and spent most of the Second World War in hiding.
When the USSR declared war on Japan in 1945,
Soviet armies marched into the Korean peninsula.
Kim followed shortly after.
At the same time, US forces landed in the South.
After evicting the Japanese occupiers,
the allied powers decided to split Korea,
much as they had done Germany.
American officials chose the 38th parallel,
a previously meaningless line on a map
as the boundary between the two occupied zones.
This line, apparently chosen in half an hour
by two random American kernels,
would become one of the most important borders in the world
for the next 80 years.
Korea had no natural North-South division
and everyone wanted a united Korean peninsula,
under their particular ideology, of course.
The Soviets knew
they would need a reliable Korean communist leader
to achieve this, and Stalin personally chose the greatest
of the Korean communist gorillas for the job.
In December, 1945, Kim Il-Sung became first secretary
of the Communist Party of Korea,
giving Kim power over his nation
that he would hold for the next 50 years.
The Kim deception?
Kim had risen from lowly gorilla fighter
to leader of his nation, or had he?
A bizarre conspiracy theory claims that the Kim Il-Sung
who entered North Korea in 1945 was a not the same one
who led the battle of Pochonbo.
According to this theory,
after the real Kim Il-Sung fled into the USSR,
Stalin made him disappear
like so many other communist figures
who threatened his popularity.
It sounds crazy,
but a CIA investigation into the theory concluded
that it was right.
They believed that the Kim Il-Sung
in North Korea was a criminal
who the Soviets blackmailed into a assuming a false identity
so they could manipulate him.
A Soviet officer who worked with Kim also wrote privately
that the later Kim was an imposter whose name was stolen
from the famous gorilla leader
who had actually died years earlier.
These days, historians think the theory is nonsense.
Several people who knew Kim as a gorilla confirmed
that it was the same man.
The CIA report had simply been wrong,
which happens far more often than the CIA likes to admit.
Still, it's not impossible that the entire Kim dynasty
is built on a Soviet lie.
A divided Korea.
Kim The Gorilla and Kim The First Secretary
were probably the same,
but no such unity existed for Korea itself.
Under two contrasting governments,
the Korean peninsula became a flashpoint
for the new Cold War
between communism and capitalism.
In the south, General John R. Hodge ran
the US Army's military government of Korea,
while Kim acted as the figurehead
for a Soviet-backed government in the North.
Historians have often overstated the power
of the Soviets in the North.
Modern scholars accept that after 1946,
Kim Il-Sung and the North Korean Workers Party
were leading the way in setting North Korean policy.
Kim began a series of communistic reforms in his nation.
In March, 1940, he began seizing land from landlords
without compensation and redistributing it to the people,
remaking the North's economy in a matter of months
with 1,000s of new small peasant holdings.
He set out a two-year economic plan to guide production
and investment,
relying on new levels of state control over the economy
and a focus on heavy industry.
All industry, banks, communications,
and transport infrastructure was nationalized.
And in July, 1946, Kim introduced a sexual equality law
that guaranteed equal working rights for women.
The reforms were successful
and North Korea saw an incredible economic recovery
in the first few years after 1945.
Divided communists.
All was not easy within North Korea, though.
Different factions of communists threatened Kim's control
and each tried to push North Korea in their own direction.
Kim's Kapsin, or gorilla faction, held power for now.
As the name implies, they were mostly made up
of former gorilla fighters whose effectiveness
had earned the faith of Stalin,
but Stalin's faith was awfully fragile.
This made the Soviet Korean communists a particular threat.
Made up of ethnic Koreans with Soviet citizenship,
they leaned heavily towards Moscow.
While they hadn't proven their effectiveness enough
to earn Stalin's favor, the heavy involvement
of the Soviets made them a risky rival
for the young Kim regime.
Then there was the Yan'an Faction.
This was a Chinese-aligned communist wing,
most of its members being part of the CCP.
After Mao's communists took power in China in 1949,
the Yan'an Faction became a potent threat
to Kim's Korea-centric approach that threatened
to pull North Korea towards Beijing.
Last, there were the South Korean communists.
Many had fled the south when the American troops arrived
and made it their main goal to reunify the peninsula
under communist rule.
They were less of an immediate threat until reunification
was achieved, but their leader, Pak Hon-Yong,
was the closest thing Kim had to a rival.
Pak and Kim had both been invited to Moscow in 1946
for Stalin to judge which was the suitable leader.
While Kim had one out,
Pak remained a force to be reckoned with.
Foundation of KPA.
Unsurprisingly, Kim anchored himself in the military.
He'd been a gorilla fighter for decades
and made it a huge part of his ideology,
so much so that the foundation date
of his anti-Japanese gorilla force, April 25th,
became an annual holiday.
This gorilla force was officially transformed
into the Korean People's Army,
known as KPA, in February, 1948.
Conscription was in place from the outset,
which meant that the KPA has always been a formidable force.
Arming such a massive army was a tall order,
but the USSR ensured that it was done by pouring weapons,
tanks, planes, and artillery into North Korea.
With a huge numbers and modern equipment,
the KPA was one of the most powerful military forces
in the post-war world.
The Democratic People's Republic of Korea is born, 1948.
Meanwhile, the newly formed United Nations tried
and failed to settle the Korean Peninsula problem.
The USSR opposed free elections
and refused to cooperate with the UN,
believing that they were puppets controlled by the US.
The UN proceeded to hold elections only in the South.
And on the 15th of August, 1948, the Republic of Korea,
that being South Korea, was born under the leadership
of Syngman Rhee.
As far as the UN was concerned,
this was the only true Korean government.
North Korea responded by writing their own constitution.
On the 9th of September, they declared themselves
as the Democratic People's Republic of Korea
with Kim Il-SunG as Premier.
North Korea, as we know it today, was finally here.
The Korean War: invasion.
Almost immediately, Kim started planning the reunification
of the peninsula.
With most American troops withdrawing in June, 1949
and the vastly superior Northern military at his fingertips,
it looked like an easy win.
Communism had also seen a string of recent victories
that boosted Kim's confidence too.
The USSR detonated their first atomic bomb in August, 1949,
which ended America's unchallenged nuclear supremacy.
In China, Mao's communists overthrew
the Republican government
and gave them another communist ally,
both Stalin and Mao threw their support behind an invasion,
and Mao sent at least 50,000 men
from the People's Liberation Army to support him,
although Stalin was clear
that he would not send in the Red Army.
The South expected a war.
There were several clashes in 1950 that proved hostility
between the two Koreas.
Then on 25th of June, 1950, North Korean tanks, planes,
and infantry poured over the border in a massive assault.
The northern army outnumbered
the poorly equipped south two to one,
it's air force by more than 10 to one,
and North Korea's almost 300 tanks met a grand total
of zero units of South Korean armor.
South Korea utterly collapsed.
Within five days, Kim controlled Seoul.
Almost 80% of South Korea's army was captured, killed,
or had deserted, and the tiny handful of US troops
on the peninsula could do nothing but run
in the face of the North's overwhelming advance.
As they went,
North Korean forces targeted ideological enemies
in South Korea.
Politicians, anti-communist intellectuals
and business leaders were systematically exterminated
by the KPA.
Kim Il-Sung was beyond pleased.
It appeared he'd won a great victory,
but that euphoria was short-lived.
The Korean War: US retaliation.
The United Nation condemned the invasion immediately
and two days later, it approved a unified military response
to the crisis.
Naturally the US took the lead.
Washington was worried that the fall of Korea to communism
would threaten Japan and cause a domino effect
in the rest of Asia.
General Douglas MacArthur,
who'd led US forces in the Pacific Theater of World War II
and currently oversaw US forces in occupied Japan,
was given overall command
of the UN Coalition forces.
UN forces landed at Incheon on the 15th of September, 1950.
In the largest amphibious assault since World War II,
the UN attack shattered the KPA.
The North Korean front collapsed
and 10s of 1,000s of KPA soldiers were captured.
The UN quickly retook Seoul
and by the end of September
had pushed back to the 38th parallel.
By that point, most of North Korea's army
had been killed or captured.
In October, UN forces pushed into North Korea itself.
Kim and his government were forced to flee
and Pyongyang fell to UN forces within weeks.
What it looked like a victory
was quickly becoming a total defeat.
The Korean War: strategic bombing.
For North Korea, the true story of the war
was not on the front lines, but at home.
As its armies collapsed,
so too did any hope of controlling the air.
UN-aligned air Forces quickly established dominance
in the skies above North Korea
and used it to devastating effect.
The US Air Force led a colossal bombing campaign
that devastated North Korea's population and infrastructure.
Entire cities were flattened,
villages were wiped off the map.
Pyongyang was so badly bombed
that not a single major building was left standing.
The US general in charge of the Air Forces said
that by October, 1950,
the Air Force stopped sending bombers out simply
because there was nothing left to bomb.
An estimated 80% or more of North Korea's buildings
were flattened
as more explosives were dropped on North Korea
than were dropped in the entire Pacific Theater
in World War II.
Maybe 10% of the North Korean population was killed
by the bombing.
It is this experience, more than anything else,
that shaped North Korean attitudes to the US after the war.
Whatever ideological disagreements they might have
and whatever nonsense propaganda the regime puts out,
it is the near total leveling of North Korea by US bombing
that explains the sheer hatred for the USA
that pervades the North Korean state and society.
The Korean War: Chinese intervention.
Things improved for North Korea when China stepped in.
China had warned the UN forces not to get too close
to its territory, and on the 25th of October, 1950,
they decided that enough was enough.
10s of 1,000s of Chinese troops burst across the border
and surprise attacked the UN forces.
The UN was caught unaware
and retreated in the face of the sudden attack.
Chinese and North Korean forces
quickly recaptured Pyongyang,
pushed the UN back over the 38th parallel
and even retook Seoul for a short period.
Kim Il-Sung's feelings were mixed.
On the one hand, North Korea
was back under his control, but the strength
of the UN forces made reunification unlikely.
Kim resented the loss of so many of his troops
and the fact that China was doing most of the fighting.
Furthermore, both Stalin and Mao blamed the KPA
for being too incompetent to win
and causing the war to spiral out of control.
Un forces soon regrouped and pushed back.
Soul was retaken in March,
its fourth and final conquest in less than a year,
and once again it was the communist's turn
to retreat north with 1,000s of their soldiers killed,
wounded, or captured.
The UN reached the 38th parallel again in July, 1951,
and there the war would stall for two brutal years.
The Korean War: stalemate and armistice.
From July, 1951 to July, 1953,
the Korean War was a stubborn stalemate that was as grueling
and frustrating as the trenches of the First World War.
Casualties continued on both sides,
but no significant territory changed hands.
After several failed attempts to negotiate,
both sides finally came to an agreement
on the 27th of July, 1953.
It was not a peace treaty but an armistice.
Both sides agreed to halt military operations,
release prisoners, and returned the remains of the deceased.
The armistice set up an internationally monitored
demilitarized zone, the Korean DMZ,
along the border to mark the boundary
between the two nations.
The war has been left unfinished ever since.
Skirmishes and episodes of violence have broken out,
but for the most part,
North and South Korea have been locked in a tense standoff
that has threatened to spill over into a devastating war
at any moment for the last 70 years.
The rebirth of North Korea, 1953 to 1970.
North Korea emerged from the war a broken
and battered nation.
Its army was almost destroyed.
Its cities were in ruins.
Its population was exhausted and demoralized.
Kim Il-Sung and his regime now faced the monumental task
of rebuilding their country
and navigating the perilous Cold War world.
It was a task that required a fresh start,
a rebirth of North Korea for a brand new age.
Rebuilding a nation.
The war devastated North Korea socially and economically.
Overall economic output fell by 75%
from 1949 to 1953.
Output of energy, fuel, chemicals, metallurgy,
and agriculture was a fraction of what it had been
before the war.
North Korea needed a rebirth
and Kim Il-Sung set out the ways in which they'd achieve it.
In 1953, he clarified four goals
that would guide the nation in the coming years.
First, he would consolidate
what he called the People's Democratic System.
In simpler terms,
this meant doubling down on communist ideology
and ramping up the propaganda
to ensure that everyone was a loyal citizen.
Second was to rebuild the economy
and improve people's living standards.
With much of the country in ruins,
this was an obvious goal, but it would be a monumental task.
Still, with total control over the economy
and the support of their foreign allies,
Pyongyang was confident it could be achieved.
Third was to improve national defense.
The army had to be rebuilt.
The border had to be properly fortified,
and they needed to secure modern equipment
to stay competitive in a changing world.
Last but not least, the unending goal
of reunification remained.
Kim's hopes had been shattered during the war,
but he and other North Koreans remained convinced
that it was possible.
North Korea had its work cut out for it.
Post-war purges.
One of Kim's first priorities
was repairing the damage his ideology took from the war.
The North Korean Workers' Party
had lost many members during the conflict,
so he funded massive reeducation programs
to bolster the party's ranks
and reaffirm their ideology,
ensuring the party's long-term survival.
However, the more serious damage
was to the North Korean Worker Party's prestige.
The communists had presided over a failed war
that had not reunified the country as promised,
and communism itself had been rejected
by the South Korean masses who failed to rise up
to support their Northern invaders.
Kim decided to redirect blame
for those failures towards his internal rivals.
By scapegoating his enemies,
Kim redirected popular resentment away from himself
and towards the rival communist factions.
By removing these people from power,
he crippled his internal enemies
and could fill government positions
with his own allies instead.
It was transparent and predictable,
but it was awfully effective.
The Soviet Korean communist leader Ho Ka-I
faced Kim's wrath towards the war's end.
When he was purged of his posts and blamed
for a series of failures in the country's response
to the war, especially the slow repairs of dams
and infrastructure bombed by the Americans,
the accusations drove Ho Ka-I to suicide,
or so the regime claimed.
Another victim was Kim's old rival, Pak Hon-Yong.
The leader of the South Korean communist faction
had been appointed foreign minister and had promised Kim
that the Southerners would rise up and join the North
when their communist forces rolled in.
This obviously did not happen.
Kim dismissed him from his post in 1953
and then had him arrested on accusations
of being an American spy.
Only disloyalty, the regime argued,
could explain such a complete failure.
He was given a show trial and executed in December, 1955.
100s of communist figures found themselves fired,
imprisoned, or executed in the months after the war
in a similar fashion,
and Kim's grip on power became ever tighter.
Juche ideology.
With Kim's power almost unchallenged,
it fell to him to decide how North Korea would proceed.
He formulated an ideology
that would guide his country into the future.
An ideology called Juche.
Juche was and remains the guiding principle
of the entire country.
Its elements were first expressed in a 1955 speech
by Kim Il-Sung, and it essentially means self-reliance.
North Korea strives to be militarily, socially,
and economically capable of standing on its own two feet.
Cooperation with fellow socialist states was welcome,
but dependence undermined the country's power.
Economically this meant a rejection of international trade
as the path to prosperity and a focus on self-sufficiency.
The Democratic people's Republic of Korea
would strive to grow all of its own food,
develop all of its own technology,
and extract all of its own raw materials.
Socially it meant a thorough education in Juche ideology
for all citizens and an insulation from outside ideas
that might compromise the ideological unity of the nation.
All of this, of course, was in a Marxist-Leninist framework,
but Kim stressed that Korean thought and experiences
should determine how those Marxist-Leninist ideas
would be applied in practice.
Juche also defined the North against the South.
For Kim, the North was a fiercely independent nation
that stood on its own,
while the South was an American puppet shackled
to its trading partners and military alliances.
However, Juche is more than a practical philosophy.
It's also an intense love of North Korea.
One historian of North Korea described Juche
as an assumption that Korea is at the center of the world.
All citizens of the Democratic People's Republic
of Korea must passionately love their country
and by extension, its leader.
Understanding Juche is the key
to understanding modern North Korea.
Kim's cult of personality.
North Korea had a goal and a means of attaining it,
but it also needed a center to anchor the whole system,
and Kim made himself that center.
The 20th century was already no stranger to dictators
whose personality cults consumed their nations,
but Kim Il-Sung's cult would put all of them to shame.
The level of worship Kim and his descendants receive
in North Korea to this day is one of the most striking
and disturbing aspects of the regime.
At first, Kim was following in the footsteps
of his contemporaries like Mao and Stalin.
In 1953, he declared himself Suryong, or great leader,
and became a sort of embodiment of the nation.
However, that amount of power and prestige
could make anyone unhinged.
Furthermore, by becoming the representative of the nation,
any attack on Kim became an attack on North Korea.
And in a country that emphasized loyalty to the nation,
loyalty to the dictators was an inevitable consequence.
This cult quickly grew out of control.
It became illegal to write over a photo of Kim Il-Sung
or to wrap things in newspapers that mentioned his name.
It was even an offense to print his photo
on poor-quality paper.
The August faction incident.
However, the ruler cult almost brought Kim down
before he really began.
After the death of Stalin,
the USSR took a hard pivot against leader cults.
In February, 1956,
the new Soviet leader Khruschev openly denounced Stalin
and his personality cult,
along with any other leaders who tried to emulate it.
Still dependent on Soviet aid and support,
Kim was forced to obey when Khruschev summoned him
to Moscow to be privately scolded for his own ruler cult
in the summer of that year.
In his absence, Soviet
and Yan'an non-communist factions hatched a conspiracy.
They shared Khruschev's disgusted with the ruler cult
and called Sung out for his arbitrary punishment
of dissenters.
They also criticized his regime's economic policies
and his bias towards his own gorilla faction of communists.
When Kim returned for the annual party meeting
in late August, he was met with condemnation by the leaders
of the other factions.
Pak Chang-Ok, leader of the Soviet faction,
and Choe Chang-Ik, leader of the Yan'an Faction,
along with several of their allies,
took to the stage at the party conference
and tore into Kim as a tyrant and egomaniac
whose actions were undermining socialist principles,
but Kim's enemies had miscalculated.
The Soviet and Yan'an factions were too anchored in the USSR
and China for their support.
Meanwhile, Kim was a nationalist hero, a true Korean
who had fought the gorilla fight to free his nation.
For many, Kim represented Juche, self-reliance,
while his enemies would submit North Korea
to the powers of foreign nations.
At the party conference, Kim's critics were shouted down.
They overestimated their support
and the party voted to expel Choe Chang-Ik
and Pak Chang-Ok.
Over the following months,
dozens of leaders from both factions disappeared
as Kim purged everyone he could lay his hands on.
It is unknown how many people died,
but it was so bad that Beijing
and Moscow sent a joint delegation pleading with Kim
to stop the purges.
Kim simply ignored them.
Most just disappeared.
They were forgotten in hard labor camps
or shot and buried in an unmarked grave.
About 11 people were convicted in show trials
and executed as enemies of the state.
By 1960, Pak and Choe were dead.
The Soviet and Yan'an factions had been completely destroyed
and there was no one left in North Korea
who would dare challenge Kim Il-Sung's power.
The three year plan, 1954 to 1957.
With politics dealt with,
Kim turned towards economic issues.
In August, 1953, he set out his vision
for a three year plan to run from 1954 to 1956.
Kim laid out investment plans to boost the nation's economy.
Heavy industry was the main priority,
with over 80% of all industrial investment going
to sectors such as mining and construction.
The plan also set out extensive quotas for every industry
and directed workers to devote themselves
to laboring for the state.
According to Pyongyang, it was a success.
Industrial and agricultural production
had returned to their pre-war levels by early 1957.
However, external observers noted that the numbers
were probably skewed.
Thanks to all of that investment,
heavy industry had probably improved beyond pre-war levels,
but vital industries like agriculture and fishing had not.
In reality, the focus on quotas and output
had devastating consequences.
Like China, during the great famine,
the regime exacerbated its own problems
with its focus on quotas and numbers.
Regional officials who failed to meet agricultural quotas
were punished.
So officials were incentivized to lie.
This continued at each level.
Lie piling upon lie,
leaving Pyongyang with a completely warped view
of the country's actual state.
This was especially bad for farmers
who would have food seized by the state based
on exaggerated reports of food output,
which produced a famine in 1955
that killed 1,000s of people.
This disaster was hidden from the non-communist world,
but Pyongyang's allies in Beijing and Moscow
were deeply concerned.
The truth about the famine
could harm Communism's image abroad.
Both countries sent food aid,
but not enough to make up for the deficit.
The regime worked hard to bury all evidence of this famine,
and it was only in the 2000s
when historians began combing through the Soviet archives
that its existence was rediscovered.
Data is incomplete, but an estimated 800,000 people died
between 1954 and 1955.
The East German government at the time believed
that as many as 25% of North Korea's children
had starved to death.
The five year plan.
Declaring the plan of success,
Kim followed it up with a five year plan
from 1957 to 1961.
While the farmer was for reconstruction,
this new plan focused on developing in a new direction
and bringing North Korea into modernity.
The first plan had been great for industry,
but the common people still lacked food,
housing, and clothing.
Pyongyang was still too obsessed
with heavy industry quotas over agricultural output.
Both China and the USSR criticized Kim's plan
and urged him to change it, but Kim stayed his course.
The Chollima Undong, or Flying Horses campaign,
was Kim's way of ramping up production.
It was a massive propaganda campaign
to encourage productivity
and gave out rewards such as medals for factories
and workers who exceeded their monthly quotas.
Workers could also be organized into teams
and compete with other teams for maximum output.
They may be communists, but even North Korea realized
that competition could be good for the economy.
The press was filled with these Chollima Riders,
whose hard work was held up as a symbol of true patriotism.
Kim also took to visiting production sites
to encourage and inspire the workers,
which became huge propaganda features for the regime.
Another key part of Kim's motivation campaign
were on the spot guidance visits,
where Kim would visit farms, factories,
or other facilities to motivate workers.
According to the propaganda, he would use his immense wisdom
to instruct the workers how to be better at their jobs
and achieve their quotas.
On the spot guidance has become one of the most iconic parts
of regime propaganda
and has been kept up by all of Kim Il-Sung's successors.
Their motivation campaigns were combined
with nationalization and reorganization that tightened state
and party control of the economy.
By 1958, North Korea had collectivized every farm,
and by the following year,
it had reached full nationalization
of all industry and trade.
The obsession with quotas
and productivity also had its dark sides.
The pressure to exceed and expand led to punishment
and social consequences for workers or teams
who fell behind.
The government even started a "drink no soup" campaign,
encouraging workers to not eat or drink as much
so they wouldn't have to go to the bathroom
during work hours.
The five year plan, success or failure?
So was it all a success?
It's not so simple.
The more Kim pushed, the more the workers were exhausted.
The quality of work started to decline,
even as the quantity increased.
Kim complained that companies were being lazy
and would rush to meet their monthly quotas
with shoddy worksmanship of goods and materials.
And by the late 1950s and early 1960s,
production growth had stalled again.
In theory, by 1959,
North Korea had met its production quotas
and the government declared the plan completed ahead
of schedule.
The big picture numbers definitely looked great.
The North's per capita GDP was $140,
well above the South's $81,
and many industries had seen increases in production
by 50% or more.
However, the GDP was inflated by industrial output
at the expense of the food, clothing,
and housing that Kim claimed to prioritize.
The average North Korean remained wretchedly poor,
living in temporary shanty towns
and many of them suffered from malnutrition.
Industrial development came before the wellbeing
of the people.
The state also altered the numbers
to not count industries such as coal, steel, copper,
and fertilizer, which had all failed
to meet their plan targets.
Grain output was also curiously absent
from the official 1959 statistics.
It's telling that the government immediately planned a year
of adjustment in 1960 to try and rebalance the numbers
in preparation for a new phase of economic planning
into the 1960s,
and never again would North Korea publish thorough data
about its economic situation.
Songbun - class system.
Alongside economic reorganization,
the 1950 saw a social reorganization
with the introduction of the songbun system.
Songbun is essentially a caste system that is still upheld
in the Democratic People's Republic of Korea.
It was launched in 1957 to distinguish
between those families who were always loyal to the regime
and those who were not to be trusted.
There are three overarching classes in the songbun system.
The core comprise about 28% of the population,
made up of those people descended from the original gorillas
and revolutionaries, the soldiers who died in the war,
and those from traditional peasant families.
This group is seen as the most loyal and trustworthy.
They will be allies to the end.
The largest group at 45% are the wavering.
This includes the foreign born population,
families of defectors,
members of the middle classes and their families,
and a number of regular occupations like small traders
and teachers.
This group is not necessarily disloyal,
but they cannot be trusted
to be completely devoted to the regime.
If things take a bad turn economically or politically,
the regime knows that these people might turn against them.
Lastly, roughly 27% of the population belong
to the hostile class.
Political prisoners, religious people,
supporters of the South or the descendants of businessmen
and landlords all belong to this group.
These people are not to be trusted
and must be closely monitored for any hint of disloyalty
or anti-communist action.
Every North Korean is sorted into one of these classes
and then sorted into one of 50 subcategories within it.
Those higher up the songbun scale can expect privileges,
and having good songbun is the key
to a good life in North Korea.
On the other hand, those with bad songbun
can expect to be discriminated against.
Songbun affects everything,
what jobs one can have, who they can marry,
what healthcare they have, what schools they can get into,
and even how much food is distributed to them.
The regime maintains a file on every North Korean
above the age of 17 to keep track of their songbun.
Good deeds might move one up the songbun scale,
but moving up is much harder than moving down.
Missing work quotas, committing a crime
or showing any disloyalty to the regime
are always bad for your songbun.
Propaganda overdrive.
Amidst this social and economic reform,
the regime kept pumping out propaganda to tell citizens
that they were fortunate to live
in the greatest nation on earth.
The regime claimed that North Korea was a paradise,
free from the miseries that affected other lesser nations.
According to one kindergarten teacher,
there was no such thing as blindness
or deafness in North Korean children
because those were failures of the pre-revolutionary world.
According to school teachers, students never missed a lesson
and never misbehaved.
There was no such thing as alcoholism
or prostitution in North Korea
because everyone had what they needed
and never had to stoop to such lows.
Divorce, that never happened, neither did premarital sex.
And of course it wouldn't be a communist utopia
without a complete absence of homosexuality,
which the regime saw as an anti-socialist perversion.
The truth was quite different.
The regime took care to hide its flaws
from the eyes of the world, even its own people,
while trumpeting its supposed success to the stars,
but there was something sinister
behind this image of perfection.
One visitor to North Korea noted
that despite the war being recent
and causing 1,000s of injuries,
he never saw a single person who was scarred,
mutilated or disabled.
The question was obvious.
He said, what have they done with them all?
The truth was that anything or anyone
that made the regime look bad or question its image
was taken out of the public eye.
Some were merely hidden,
but others would see the dark underside of the Kim regime.
Punishment in North Korea.
A regime like North Korea needed ways to punish dissenters
and the elaborate system of prison
and labor camps first set up by Kim Il-Sung's government
are some of the most effective
and terrifying examples in the world.
It is easy to end up in a North Korean prison,
the slightest accusation of disloyalty
or anti-socialist activity from a party official
or someone higher up the songbun scale
could be enough for someone to be swept away by the police.
Trials are a little more than ideological performances
where the judge can berate the accused
for being a traitor and enemy to North Korea
before being inevitably sentenced
to several years in prison.
The North Korean prison system borrowed heavily
from Stalin's infamous gulags.
They were designed to handle not only regular criminals
but political dissidents,
whose only crimes were against the ideas of the regime.
Virtually all North Korean prisons were and are labor camps.
Inmates are subjected to forced labor to produce goods
or extract raw materials for the regime.
This ensures that the inmates labor isn't wasted in idleness
and in theory, gives them labor skills and work ethic
that those who are lucky enough
to be released might remember when they return to society.
Many prisons also serve as reeducation camps.
These places are known as Kyohwaso.
Then there are concentration camps
for political prisoners known as Kwanliso.
These are for the prisoners for whom reeducation won't work
and only hard labor or total isolation
are suitable punishments.
Political rivals such as those purged
after the August faction incident,
dissidents, critics attempted defectors,
and sometimes the more serious violent criminals
are likely to end up in these camps.
Prisoners in all camps are subject to poor living conditions
and barely enough food to survive.
Beatings are a common punishment.
And one former camp guard estimated
that at least a third of inmates were mutilated,
losing fingers, ears, or eyes to guard beatings.
That same guard recalled that as far as the regime
was concerned, inmates are not humans
and there are no human rights protections
for anyone in North Korean captivity.
With Kim's power secure, the economy recovering,
society realigning along socialist lines,
and all of the opponents rapidly ending up in camps
or graves, North Korea entered the 1960s
with everything to play for.
Challenges and triumphs.
The great leap onward.
As the new decade dawned, North Korea continued
to strive for economic and military progress.
Kim still wanted to improve heavy industry
and compromised on the policy of Juche to import equipment
to support these economic sectors.
The USSR was initially their main supplier,
but friction over pricing and other issues led North Korea
to do the unthinkable, turn to the West.
Pyongyang realized that it was cheaper
for them to buy industrial plants
and machinery equipment from the West or Japan.
Often these goods were of much higher quality
than the Soviet models.
Kim declared the Great Leap Onward policy,
a way to use Western technology
to jumpstart Korean development.
They imported billions of dollars worth
of equipment on credit,
including $1 billion from Japan alone.
Western businesses were happy to embrace a new market
for the goods
and the fact that they were snubbing the Soviets
didn't hurt either.
In turn, North Korea used the equipment
to establish the world's largest cement factory
as well as production facilities for steel, paper,
fertilizer, and chemicals.
Overall, the West went from almost nothing
to being over 40% of total North Korea trade.
These brief years of interaction in the '60s
and '70s soon faded, however,
when it became clear that the North Koreans
who had been buying everything on credit
were never going to pay it back.
Defection of James Joseph Dresnok.
This interaction did generate Western interest
in the hermit kingdom
and a special temptation for a handful of men,
men like James Joseph Dresnok.
Dresnok was a US soldier and he'd had a rough life.
His parents divorced when he was young.
He'd never finished high school
and he had a run-ins with the law before he enlisted at 17.
He married young, but returned from a deployment in Germany
to find his wife had left him for another man.
When Dresnok was redeployed to South Korea in 1962,
he had lost all hope
and was treating his depression with alcohol.
It didn't help
that his behavior earned him a court marshal either.
With no wife, no career, and no future,
Dresnok decided that life in the DPRK
couldn't possibly be worse than his current one.
So on August 15th, 1962,
Dresnok ran across a minefield in the demilitarized zone
and straight into the arms
of some rather shocked North Korean soldiers.
Dresnok was interrogated, but they soon realized
that he genuinely wished to live in North Korea.
After initial hesitation, the regime accepted him.
Dresnok was given a home
and became a North Korean citizen.
He was one of at least seven known US defectors
to the country.
In his new life in North Korea,
Dresnok became an English teacher
and sometimes acted in state propaganda films.
He and the handful
of other American defectors often played American soldiers
in war films, and he became something of a celebrity
in the country.
Another defector who later returned to the West claimed
that they were closely monitored by state security services
and were sometimes beaten or interrogated
on suspicion of being spies,
but if this is true, it did not seem to deter Dresnok.
Dresnok lived the rest of his life in North Korea.
He married twice and had several children
before dying in November, 2016.
His children remain in North Korea
where they hold important jobs
and plan to remain there for the rest of their lives.
Military of Kim Il-Sung.
A few defections like Dresnok
were not going to redress the military imbalance
between North Korea and the US, though.
In the 1960s, Kim focused
on rebuilding his decimated military,
using the rebuilt economic strength of his nation
to re-arm and upgrade his massive army.
The government coined the slogan "arms in one hand,
hammer and sickle in the other"
to emphasize the importance of the military
to their vision of the country.
North Korea continued to recruit soldiers into its military.
All eligible citizens
had to serve eight years in one branch or another.
Most of its equipment was still being given to them
by the USSR and China well into the 1950s.
Maybe 5% of its annual expenditure went to the military,
most in most nations,
but not as high as it would be in later years.
With no wars to fight, the soldiers were regularly assigned
to work projects around the country,
providing an easy labor force
that could be deployed wherever the state needed them.
On top of its obvious use, if war broke out,
a strong military was a useful way
to indoctrinate young people with state ideology.
Kim wanted to inculcate military discipline
in the next generation and required all children to practice
with firearms, starting when they were seven years old.
This military resurgence had economic benefits too.
Kim envisioned a militarily self-sufficient North Korea
that could boost its economy by churning out a rifle
for every citizen and enough tanks, planes, and artillery
to match the South and its American allies.
This concept was called Byungjin,
and argued that military development was deeply tied
to economic development.
And it has remained relevant
in North Korean thought ever since.
As the military grew in power,
Kim purged unreliable officials.
In the late 1960s, top military men
like the Minister of National Security,
the Chief of Southern Intelligence,
and the Commander in Chief of the Navy,
along with at least 10 top generals,
were removed from power.
This was less a case of them being a threat
and more a case of Kim simply tightening his control
to replace these men with even more dependable allies.
Communist power politics.
While still providing economic aid to Pyongyang,
Moscow and Beijing's relationship
with the strange little regime was not smooth sailing.
Moscow was still uncomfortable with Kim's personality cult,
but it was China who was most unhappy with Kim.
North Korea's poor performance in the Korean War
had earned them a low opinion in China's political
and military leadership
and the fact that China had to take up most
of the manpower burden
of the conflict created resentment against the Kim regime.
Kim's tied control over the state also conflicted
with Mao's enthusiasm for popular revolution.
When Mao's Legion of Red Guard's student activist launched
the Cultural Revolution in 1966, waging a campaign of terror
and vandalism against rival communist factions
and symbols of Chinese tradition across the country,
Kim Il-Sung condemned them.
To him, it was a dangerous act of popular unrest
that risked undermining the stability of the country.
The Red Guards had no love for him either
and dubbed him "a fat revisionist"
who was not worthy of being called a communist
Korean DMZ conflict.
Perhaps it was these wounds to his pride
and questions about his credentials
that made Kim Il-Sung lash out at his enemies in 1966.
Inspired by the work of the Viet Cong,
Kim Ong devised plans for gorilla infiltrators
to slip across the DMZ and wreak havoc on the South.
After over a decade of stalemate,
it seemed he wanted to roll the dice on conflict once more.
Incursions and even firefights along the DMZ
were not unheard of,
and there were usually a few dozen encounters a year.
However, in 1966, these increased tenfold.
There were almost daily skirmishes
as North Korean gorillas
were caught in South Korean territory.
As tensions rose, border guards became more on edge
and started to resolve disputes with aggression and gunfire.
This period is sometimes called the second Korean War,
but there were no major battles.
Rather than a concerted campaign,
it was 100s of tiny skirmishes and gorilla attacks.
There were casualties on both sides,
and the US declared the area around the demilitarized zone
a hostile fire zone.
Blue House raid.
By far the most dire episode of the conflict was a daring
and disastrous North Korean assassination attempt
on the South Korean president.
They were convinced
that eliminating President Park Chung Hee,
he wouldn't just weaken the South,
but cause chaos from which the people would rise up,
throw out the American occupiers, and embrace communism.
On the night of January 17th, 1968,
31 elite North Korean commandos slipped across the DMZ
into the South.
Their goal, infiltrate President Park's residence
at the Blue House in Seoul and eliminate him.
Each man and the team had been handpicked
and trained in infiltration.
They'd rehearsed this mission dozens of times,
and most of all, they'd been pumped full
of North Korean propaganda.
They avoided detection for several days,
until they encountered four civilian wood cutters.
These civilians might have feared death,
but they were saved by the delusional propaganda
of the North.
The Democratic People's Republic of Korea
had assured its people that these Southern masses
were oppressed and eager to embrace communism.
The soldiers simply explained the virtues
of communism to the men,
promised that they'd all soon be joined
in wonderful communist bliss and let them go.
Naturally, the men immediately reported them to the police.
Within hours, the warning
was relayed up the chain of command.
South Korea didn't know what the commandos wanted,
but they mobilized everything in the area to find them
and put the whole country on high alert.
The North Koreans managed to arrive in Seoul undetected,
but they had to scuttle their original plan.
They'd been trained well, though,
and adapted to the high alert.
With soldiers everywhere, the commandos simply blended in.
They dawned stolen South Korean uniforms.
And on the 20th of January,
the full group of 31 armed men walked down the street
in open daylight towards the President's residence
at the Blue House.
The commandos got within 800 meters of the President's house
before some curious policemen stopped them.
It didn't take long for the police
to see right through their disguises.
Their cover blown, the commandos opened fire.
One policeman died and two North Koreans fell
before the commandos scattered.
A massive manhunt was launched in the following days.
South Korean and American forces swept the city
and countryside hunting down the scattered commandos.
Of the 31 Commandos,
just one escaped back across the border.
One more was captured, but all of the rest were killed.
The Blue House raid was an embarrassment for both sides.
The North Korean soldiers
had foolishly blown their own cover
and failed their mission.
However, had the four civilians not warned the authorities,
it is possible the commandos would have succeeded.
Even then, with Seoul on high alert,
the commandos had gotten within 800 meters of their target
before being caught.
The Blue House raid could have been the spark
of a major war, but by sheer luck, it happened to occur just
as the Tet Offensive exploded in Vietnam,
dragging away us attention and guaranteeing
that America would not commit to another war in Asia.
For his part, Kim Il-Sung denied involvement
and blamed rogue elements in the government for the plan,
but other actions by North Korea
at the same time paint a different picture.
The conflict peaks.
A mere three days after the Blue House raid,
North Korea captured a US recon ship off the coast
of the peninsula.
The USS Pueblo was performing intelligence gathering
several miles off the coast
when it was intercepted by the North Korean Navy
and Air Force.
Officially, the Pueblo was in international waters,
but North Korea has always asserted a much larger sea border
than other countries accept.
The North Koreans pursued the ship when it tried to flee
and fired several warning shots,
killing one sailor before the Pueblo surrendered
and its crew was taken prisoner.
It took several days to confirm the ship's fate.
And Washington scrambled for a response.
They desperately wanted to avoid making things worse.
Not only might the hostages be killed,
but US resources were consumed dealing
with Tet Offensive in Vietnam.
All the while, the crew suffered the misery
and torture of North Korean captivity.
The North began stockpiling rations.
And in early 1968, Pyongyang closed its schools
and evacuated citizens to the countryside
in anticipation of a nuclear attack.
Over 100 infiltrators were sent to the South again
in late October, but almost all of them were caught
within weeks of an that left about 150 people
on both sides dead.
The murder of an entire family at Gebang Mountain
by the infiltrators, including a 10-year-old boy,
intensified the South Korean response and made hope
of a South Korean pro-communist uprising even more absurd.
The global community feared war.
Diplomats from communist, capitalist,
and non-aligned nations urged deescalation.
Even Moscow was unhappy.
During a party conference in April, 1968,
Premier Brezhnev condemned North Korea
for trying to drag the world into another conflict.
We do not know what exactly led Kim Il-Sung
to wind down the provocations in 1969.
The anger of the USSR in China,
fear of actual conflict or a changing domestic political
and economic situation might all explain it.
We only know that for whatever reason, Pyongyang eased off
on the provocations over the following months,
and by late 1969, the crew of the Pueblo were released
and hostile encounters along the demilitarized zone
had returned to their pre-1966 levels.
It is possible that Kim's massive military buildup
in the 1960s created the appetite for war.
It is also likely that the purge
of North Korean generals in the late 1960s
was a direct result of the failures of this whole conflict.
Overall, though, it was a pointless conflict
that claimed an estimated 400 South Korean
and American lives, along with 100s of North Koreans.
Prosperity in the '60s and '70s.
North Korea's military fortunes were poor,
but its economic prosperity at this point was not so dire.
Per capita GDP in the North was comparable
or even higher than that of the South well into the 1960s
and '70s.
More than just rebuilding,
North Korea had upgraded too.
Almost all homes had electricity by the mid 1970s
and almost 70% of the population had urbanized
as agricultural improvements reduced the need
for people to be rural farmers.
Education also improved
with virtually all children enrolled in school
and over 200 universities established across the country,
all with free tuition, of course.
One of the biggest success stories in North Korea was
and remains national health.
The hospitals remain underfunded.
However, mandatory health checkups
and vaccination programs instituted under Kim Il-Sung
have left North Korea with an unusually high life expectancy
and a low infant mortality rate despite
its relative poverty.
To this day, North Korea enjoys an average life expectancy
of about 73 years,
lower than the US or other developed countries,
but considerably higher than other nations
of comparable economic status.
Still, Kim's promises far exceeded reality.
He'd once claimed he would see North Korea
where everyone wore silk,
lived in a house with a tiled roof,
and ate three full meals a day.
North Korea had made progress, but this dream of luxury,
a dream that was already reality for millions in the West,
was still a distant hope.
What's more, North Korea's progress towards
that distant hope was about to come to a grinding halt.
A desperate nation.
Economic issues.
By the mid 1970s, North Korea's economy
was showing signs of struggle.
The Chollima Movement had exhausted its workforce
and production was steadily declining.
Imports of advanced Western machinery had stalled
when it became obvious that Pyongyang
would not be able to pay its debts.
Global economic challenges throughout the decade,
including the 1973 oil crisis,
had knock-on effects that shook the already fragile nation.
In 1976, North Korea was forced to stop all dead repayments
to the West, a dire sign
of the state of the nation's finances.
Manipulation of statistics also continued to be a problem.
Success varied wildly in different parts of the economy,
and already by 1968,
the government had stopped publishing specific data
on economic output to avoid scrutiny.
Some industries like ceramic soared,
and the government smashed these numbers together
with massive underperformance in other industries
to create the illusion of success for propaganda purposes.
By not recognizing their failures, though,
the government only made it worse,
continuing to pour resources into overperforming industries
when they could have been better spent elsewhere.
Things were not all bad.
By many metrics, life in the 1970's North Korea
was relatively good,
at least in the first half of the decade.
Residential construction projects
had finally addressed the housing shortages
that plagued the country since the war,
and there had been undeniable development
in both industry and agriculture.
However, the North would soon fall rapidly behind
its southern neighbors in terms of prosperity,
quality of life, and industrial output.
Pyongyang tried to save its flagging economy
with the August Third Consumer Goods Movement,
which was basically a campaign to get North Koreans
to buy useless goods they didn't need
and that didn't last just to create demand
and boost GDP numbers.
Attempts to restart the Chollima campaign
for the movement failed.
The exhausted workforce produced poor products,
which meant even more had to be made to replace them,
creating an endless cycle of decreasing quality
and increasing demand
that further warped economic statistics.
North Korea's pride especially suffered
as its old rivals in the South
and in Japan began rapid economic rises
that catapulted them ahead in the 1970s.
As South Korea soared,
North Korea became increasingly dependent on its Soviet
and Chinese allies.
By the end of the decade,
North Korea was effectively a vasal state of the USSR,
relying on them for economic subsidies
and diplomatic muscle,
and watching as its enemy soared ahead towards prosperity.
Foreign policy changes.
The shifting winds
of global politics presented new challenges for North Korea.
After the US' withdrawal from Vietnam,
Kim entertained the idea of reunification with the South.
If Vietnam could defeat the US, he argued,
surely North Korea could.
Kim presented this possibility to Mao Zedong,
but this was not 1951 anymore.
North Korea's military advantage over the South
had shrunk dramatically,
and the US' embarrassment in a gorilla war spoke little
of its power to win a conventional one.
Furthermore, Beijing had not forgotten that their soldiers
had shouldered most of the fighting burden
after saving Kim's last disastrous war attempt.
Frankly, they did not trust Pyongyang to win.
The other reason they refused to support the idea
was China's newfound effort to build bridges with the West.
By the mid 1970s, China was looking for ways
to reduce hostilities to the US and build economic ties.
The Nixon administration had been eager to do so,
hoping to deepen the divides between Moscow and Beijing,
and allowing North Korea to start another war
would only ruin those efforts.
Kim's plans were shelved when he began to realize
that the old reliance on China and the USSR
in an eternal union against the West was crumbling.
To counter this, Kim Il-Sung found new allies outside
of China and Russia.
Fellow communists like Pol Pot in Cambodia
were rather short-lived allies.
One of the more successful areas
of North Korean diplomacy was Africa.
Kim found fast friends in the continent's mad dictators,
like Idi Amin and Jean-Bedel Bokassa,
men whose craving for power and control matched his own.
Monique Nguema, the black girl from Pyongyang.
Another appropriately psychotic friend Kim made
was Francisco Macias Nguema,
the ruthless dictator of Equatorial Guinea.
Nguema turned his country into his own little hellish cult.
His official nickname was "The Great Miracle,"
and priest said to give praise to him in every service.
Of course he shared the blood lust of North Korea too.
In one instance,
Nguema had 200 people massacred in a football stadium
while blasting pop music over the speakers.
Equatorial Guinea was easily one
of the worst places in the world to live.
They called it the Auschwitz of Africa for good reason.
As a sign of their friendship,
Nguema sent his daughter Monica to be raised and educated
in Pyongyang in 1979.
It was just in the nick of time too,
since Nguema was ousted and killed months later,
but Kim Il-Sung kept his promise
to his depraved departed friend.
Monica was given the best education
that North Korea could provide.
And Kim regularly called Monica to see how she was doing
and made sure she had everything she wanted.
Monica is still alive and proudly considers Kim Il-Sung
to be her second father.
She has written several books about her life and family,
where she adamantly defends both Nguema and Kim Il-Sung
as good men who were unfairly smeared by Western propaganda.
Operation Paul Bunyan.
But while North Korea built closer reliances
with some nations, relations with the United States
and South Korea continued to be difficult.
The DMZ remained a Tinder box that could be ignited
by the simplest thing, including a tree.
On August 18th, 1976, a small group of US
and South Korean soldiers,
led by Captain Arthur Bonifas and Lieutenant Mark Barrett,
entered the DMZ to cut down a tree
which was blocking the view
for a UN command post on the border.
A group of North Korean soldiers came over
and watched them closely.
After a while, the North Koreans became belligerent.
They demanded Captain Bonifas and his men stop and leave,
but Bonifas turned his back to them and kept working.
He didn't even see the North Korean soldiers
when they suddenly and brutally attacked him.
About 30 North Korean soldiers armed with crow bars,
metal pipes and other implements pounced on the US
and South Korean soldiers.
Captain Bonifas was beaten to death on the spot.
Lieutenant Barrett escaped to a nearby ditch
where the North Korean soldiers found him and attacked him
with the same axes the soldiers had been using
to cut down the tree.
Bonifas and Barrett both died from their injuries.
Both men were armed but never drew their weapons.
Probably scared that gunfire
would only make things worse.
Immediately North Korean state media spun the attack
as an act of American aggression,
and North Korea's international allies echoed
this propaganda.
Video, photographic, and eyewitness evidence refuted it,
but the regime made sure
that the North Korean people only saw their version
of events,
but if Pyongyang had hoped the US would back down,
they were badly mistaken.
The US refused to take the murder
of two of their soldiers lightly,
but they also didn't want to start a war over a tree.
Cue Operation Paul Bunyan,
named for the famous lumberjack folk hero.
The US had a single goal.
They were going to cut that tree down
and they were going to dare Pyongyang to try and stop them.
The US called in an army's worth of resources.
100s of armed soldiers, martial arts specialists,
armored vehicles, attack helicopters, a fleet of bombers,
fighter jets,
and not to mention the aircraft carrier USS Midway,
which was moved to a station offshore.
Practically every US and allied military base in East Asia
was put on full alert, ready to assist
if the North Koreans tried to stop them cutting that tree.
With enough firepower
to conquer a small country behind them,
the US sent a team into the DMZ
to chop down the tree once and for all.
A few 100 North Korean soldiers on the border
could only watch in awe as the US troops brought it down,
while helicopters and bombers circled on the horizon.
45 minutes later, Operation Paul Bunyan
was declared a success.
The stump was left standing for a few years
and now a memorial stands on the spot
to honor Bonifas and Barrett.
North Korea, apparently shocked
by the lengths the US would go for a tree,
didn't go so far as to apologize,
but Kim Il-Sung expressed his regret
that the incident had gotten out of hand
and said both sides needed to commit to keeping the peace.
It wasn't much,
but it was the closest the Kim regime had come
to accepting responsibility
for something bad in its entire history thus far.
Flagpole War.
The Paul Bunyan incident didn't solve issues along the DMZ,
not by a long shot,
but subsequent disagreements were generally more civil.
In fact, they could be downright silly at times.
The Flagpole War of the 1980s was a good example,
and it's exactly what it sounded like.
South Korea erected a 98 meter flagpole near the border
so that their flag could be seen by the North.
Taking some lessons from the showmanship
of their American rivals, the North answered back
with a 160 meter flagpole that dwarfed their neighbors.
The flag alone weighed almost 600 pounds.
And to this day, this little sign of North Korean vanity
is the tallest flagpole in the world.
The emergence of Kim Jong-Il.
By 1980, Kim Il-Sung was pushing 70.
North Korea's economic progress had stagnated
and foreign relations had been stuck
in a perpetual stalemate for almost three decades.
There might have been a sense of anxiety
about what could happen when the great leader died
and the nation faced its mounting problems alone.
Kim Il-Sung had a solution to those anxieties
and its name was Kim Jong-Il.
Kim Jong-Il was hidden from the spotlight
for the first 30 years of his life.
Born in a Soviet military camp in 1941
to Kim Il-Sung and his first wife,
Kim's childhood is obscured behind a ridiculous level
of absurd and fancy full stories.
Kim Jong-Il first emerged into the corridors
of power in the 1970s,
playing a key role in party politics,
even as he was hidden from public view.
He joined the Central committee in 1972
and by 1974, he was the designated heir to his father.
Il was groomed for succession through experience.
He was given important roles in managing espionage
and propaganda for the regime
and would gradually accrue more power behind the scenes
until the 1990s.
From the 1980s, he was put into public view
and given a thorough heroic treatment by propaganda.
Soon his portrait could be found alongside his father's
in every home in the DPRK.
Kim Jong-Il was described as the party center.
And state propaganda assured the people
that as Kim Sung's old age approached,
the party center would maintain the revolution
and continue the work that his father began.
Kidnapping of Shin Sang-ok and Choi Eun-hee.
One of Kim Jong-Il's first responsibilities
was to coordinate propaganda
to improve the DPRK case's image.
Despite his ideological opposition to Western ideas,
Kim Jong-Il was famously a huge film buff
and owned a massive collection of foreign films
that would've earned a regular North Korean a trip
to the labor camps.
Working with the propaganda and agitation department,
Kim Jong-Il dreamed
of making North Korea a sort of communist Hollywood.
Instead of themes of freedom or tales of cowboys
and US soldiers, like the Americans made,
he dreamed of a film industry that sang the praises
of communism and retold the glories
of Kim Il-Sung and his glorious revolution.
The trouble was that North Korea didn't have the people
to make films that could compete with Hollywood.
Kim Jong-Il made a few of his own during the 1970s,
but any applause they got from the North Korean audience
was forced.
Kim knew he needed people with talent
to make his dream come true, and he knew where to find them.
In January, 1978,
North Korean agents
approached South Korean actress Choi Eun-Hee
while she was in Hong Kong.
They shoved her onto a boat and took her back to North Korea
where she was given a tour of the country
and met Kim Il-Sung.
Despite her kidnapping, Choi was treated well
and spent time with Kim visiting theaters, operas,
and parties across the country.
Six months later, North Korean agents swept up
another South Korean film expert in Hong Kong,
the director Shin Sang-Ok.
Shin happened to be Choi's ex-husband,
and Kim intentionally kidnapped both
to reunite them in North Korea
and compel them to stay to make films for him.
After several failed escape attempts from Shin,
they gave in.
Choi and Shin remarried
and spent the next eight years pumping out movies
for the regime.
Some of the films were exactly what you'd expect.
Film productions of Kim Jong-Il's own screenplays
or tales of Kim Il-Sung's glorious resistance
against the Japanese.
Choi even won an award for her performance
in one propaganda film
about a peasant woman joining the communists
in Japanese-occupied China,
but the best film had to be Pulgasari,
a North Korean Godzilla ripoff about a magic dragon
that overthrows a corrupt emperor.
You can watch the film online.
Kenpachiro Satsuma, one of the actors who played Godzilla,
admitted that Pulgarsari
was actually better than some of the Godzilla films.
Unfortunately there would be no sequel.
Choi and Shin were well treated,
but they were still prisoners.
During a visit to Vienna to secure funding
for their next big hit,
they managed to sneak away from their North Korean guards
and escaped to the US embassy.
North Korea's film industry
would never see wonders like Pulgarsari again,
but at least Choi and Shin could finally be free.
Seed-bearing program.
ChoI and Shin were not the only people kidnapped
and taken in North Korea in this period
and many would not have the chance to escape.
Throughout the 1970s, Pyongyang kidnapped 100s
of foreigners and smuggled them back to the DPRK.
Most of the targets were taken from Japan,
although kidnappings from other countries like France
and Malaysia were also known.
There was no real pattern to them.
They would occur at any place at any time.
Sometimes taking young couples, other times a lone man
or even a 13-year-old girl.
The victims would be taken to North Korea
and forced to live in the country
for the rest of their lives.
If they were abducted as a couple,
they would be split up for a time
and then reunited after a thorough indoctrination.
If they were alone, they would eventually be paired up
with another captive of the opposite sex.
They would be given a home
and expected to conceive children.
That was the reason why they were taken in the first place.
North Korea wanted those children
to turn them into loyal spies.
Marriage between North Koreans
and foreigners were forbidden,
and so racial homogeneity
was almost universal in North Korea.
Therefore, a spy who did not look like a North Korean
was an extremely valuable asset to the regime.
A similar tactic was the seed-bearing strategy
where young North Korean women
would be sent out to seduce powerful foreign men
like politicians and businessmen.
They'd get pregnant and then the North Korean government
would use the children to blackmail the men
to give them concessions
or other support from their position of power.
The ends of both schemes were similar,
to breed a crop of ethnically camouflaged spies
who could blend
into society anywhere North Korea needed them to.
To this day, we do not know how successful these spies were.
We do not know of any of these children actually being used
for their intended purpose.
It's possible the plan was scrapped
or that they've been so successful
that no one ever caught them.
North Korea only came clean about the abductions in 2002
as part of a new diplomatic chapter with Japan.
Still, the numbers they confess to taking, no more than 13,
are much lower than the numbers
that survivors and others suggest.
Just five of the abductees
were returned to Japan later that year,
and the fates of dozens of other missing people
and their children are unknown.
Rangoon bombing.
North Korea's criminal behavior seemed
to get worse in the 1980s,
perhaps reflecting the newfound influence of Kim Jong-Il.
Two horrendous terrorist attacks
on foreign soil shocked the world in that decade
and increasingly isolated the DPRK.
The first was an attempted assassination
of the South Korean President Chun Doo-Hwan during a visit
to Rangoon, modern day Yangon, in Burma.
On the 9th of October, 1983,
Chun, along with a host of other South Korean officials
and advisors, was due to attend a wreath laying ceremony
at the Martyr's Mausoleum dedicated
to several Burmese national heroes.
At 10:25 AM, just before the ceremony was due to start,
a bomb hidden in the building
by North Korean agents exploded.
The blast destroyed the memorial, killing 21 people
an wounding 46.
Among the dead
were several high-ranking South Korean officials,
including the Foreign Minister
and the Deputy Prime Minister,
along with journalists and Burmese civilians.
Luckily for President Chun,
his car had been caught up in traffic
and he escaped unharmed.
North Korea was an obvious suspect,
And police quickly identified three
North Korean military officers
who had secretly entered Yangon and received a package
from a North Korean diplomatic mission,
which was later found to have been explosives.
Police closed in but the suspects did not go easily.
One suspect was killed in a firefight with police
after taking down three police officers.
The remaining two were captured after attempting
to kill themselves with a grenade.
One of these men, Kang Min-Chul, avoided the death penalty
by confessing the details of the crime
and implicating the regime.
The Rangoon goon bombing shattered North Korean relations
with multiple countries, especially Myanmar,
who were appalled that they would attempt not only
to murder the leader of South Korea,
but to do so at a sacred site within a neutral country.
1987 Korean Air Flight 858.
The second and far worse crime occurred four years later
aboard South Korean Air Flight 858.
On the 29th of November, 1987,
two North Korean agents working
on Kim Jong-Il's orders boarded flight 858
using false Japanese passports
and speaking Japanese taught to them by some
of the captured Japanese citizens.
The plane was flying from Baghdad to Seoul,
with several stopovers in between.
The agents secretly planted an explosive device disguised
in an electronic radio
in the luggage storage above their seats.
Then left the plane when it stopped over in Abu Dhabi.
The plane continued on its journey unaware
of the deadly package it carried.
A few hours later,
the bomb detonated over the Andaman Sea in Southeast Asia,
killing all 115 people on board.
The agents tried to flee through the Middle East,
but were caught in Bahrain.
They both tried to commit suicide, but only one succeeded.
The survivor, a woman named Kim Hyon-Hui,
was detained and quickly linked to the attack.
Investigation and interrogation soon revealed the truth.
Kim Hyon-Hui had been taken from a young age
and forced through North Korea's spy program,
trained to be completely loyal to the regime.
Kim Jong-il personally ordered her
and her partner to bomb the plane to scare South Korea
and frighten people away from the upcoming 1988 Olympics
in Seoul.
For her part, Kim Hyon-Hui was sentenced to death,
but she was pardoned by the South Korean government,
who argued that the indoctrinated girl
was as much a victim of the regime as anyone else.
It was a controversial decision.
And Hyon-Hui lives with constant security out of fear
of revenge from the victim's families
or the North Korean government to this day.
She has since announced the regime
and appears to be genuinely remorseful,
but the decision to let her off the hook
has angered many people.
The murder of 115 people aboard Flight 858
was one of the most egregious acts
of violence committed by North Korea since the Korean War.
The international community was outraged
and the US officially declared North Korea
a terrorist state.
Of course North Korea officially denies
that it had anything to do with it,
but the evidence against them is unquestionable.
Megaprojects.
Clearly the 1980s were a decade of external problems.
Pyongyang tried to distract from these issues
by funding massive internal projects to placate the people.
Some of these projects were genuinely useful,
others were mere exercises in vanity
and some turned out to be miserable failures.
The Nampo Dam on the west coast of the country
was the great internal achievement of the decade.
Built between 1981 and 1986,
this massive $4 billion tidal barrage separates
the Taedong River from the Yellow Sea.
It prevents seawater contamination of the river,
allowing it to be used to supply water for human,
industrial, and agricultural needs.
It is undeniably a feat of engineering
and is still a proud icon of regime propaganda
and a popular tourist destination to boot,
but while the Nampo Dam had a purpose,
the Juche Tower did not.
The Juche Tower is a 560 foot tall monument
to the regime's ideology in Pyongyang.
It makes for a pretty sight
and it was an impressive 70th birthday gift to Kim Il-Sung,
but it was little more than a monument to the cult
of the Kim dynasty.
Then, again, at least it was completed,
unlike Pyongyang's other flagship 1980s project,
the Ryugyong Hotel.
This 1,000 foot tall pyramid skyscraper towers
above the city skyline
and was supposed to be an icon of a modernizing North Korea.
It was planned to have restaurants, guest rooms,
casinos and lounges, all to attract foreign visitors
and crucially, foreign investment.
What North Korea actually got was an endless money pit
where construction and planning problems led the project
to be abandoned.
It was started in 1987,
intended for Kim Il-Sung's 80th birthday in 1992,
but it was abandoned, and is unfinished to this day.
It was meant to be a monument to the nation's greatness,
but instead it stands as a symbol to the vanity
and wastefulness of a regime
that would waste billions on vanity projects
while their countrymen sink into poverty.
The collapse of global communism.
Change hit the world hard and fast
and for all of its isolation,
even North Korea would feel the effects.
Under Gorbachev,
Moscow became increasingly skeptical of North Korea
and tried to push it to roll back its totalitarian control.
Moscow's first formal delegation to Seoul in 1987
was also a disaster for the North's hard line
against the South,
and it forced Pyongyang to start its own process
of diplomatic engagement with the South in the years after.
Under Deng Xiaoping,
China also rolled back its aggressive state control
of the economy and embraced limited economic liberalization.
This led China to open up to the West,
leaving North Korea to become something
of an embarrassing irritant to them.
Beijing did not abandon its old ally
and economic aid continued,
but diplomatic support for North Korea was less vocal
as China sought a new place in the world diplomatic
and economic order.
Meanwhile, the rapid disintegration of the USSR in 1991
was as much of a surprise to its allies as to its enemies
and cut off a major ally for North Korea.
As global communism collapsed,
North Korea withdrew into itself.
The regime re-anchored itself in Juche,
insisting that North Korea's self-reliance
was the key that would allow the nation to survive
while other communist countries failed.
Given China's liberalization
and Gorbachev's opening to the West,
Pyongyang probably wasn't wrong on this point.
Opening itself up to new ideas could well have been fatal
for North Korea's totalitarian regime.
And so the hermit nation doubled down on its isolation.
Nuclear North Korea.
The increasingly rogue North Korea sought protection
in nuclear weapons, but even there,
the new realities of world politics were clear.
The North had been eyeing nuclear technology for decades
and had nuclear power plants,
largely thanks to Soviet support,
but it was still a long way from making nuclear weapons
of its own.
In the 1990s, the US began putting increasing pressure
on North Korea to open up its reactors
to international inspectors.
In theory, North Korea's interest in nuclear technology
was purely for energy purposes.
The loss of fuel supplies and subsidies from the USSR
had compromised the country's energy sector,
but the risk of them repurposing it
for nuclear weapons was obvious.
Better, Washington argued,
to stop them before they can repurpose that material
into weapons than wait for them to do it.
When the North suddenly withdrew
from the International Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty
in March, 1993, it triggered the first global nuclear scare
of the post-Cold War World.
There were talks of nuclear war.
And a North Korean diplomat threatened
that his nation "turn Seoul into a sea of fire."
Like every North Korean nuclear scare,
the boasting king to nothing.
They didn't have the will or weapons to follow through.
Furthermore, a US delegation led
by former US President Jimmy Carter arrived in 1994
and managed to convince Kim Il-Sung
to scale back the nuclear program if the US agreed
to provide safer non-weaponizable alternatives
for the DPRK's energy needs.
For a moment,
it looked like North Korea's path might change.
The world had forced a readjustment.
The DPRK had agreed to international help,
and Western help at that,
for a critical part of its economy.
Even better, Kim agreed to host a meeting
with the South Korean president in Pyongyang
in late July, 1994, an unprecedented diplomatic gesture.
It was a glimpse of hope,
the potential for a more cooperative North Korea,
but that glimpse wouldn't last
and neither would Kim Il-Sung.
Death of the great leader.
Just before noon on the 7th of July, 1994,
82-year-old Kim Il-Sung collapsed at his private residence
in Hyangsan province.
He'd suffered a massive heart attack.
The best doctors in the country were flown in to help him,
but in the early hours of July 8th,
the great leader of North Korea was declared dead.
The state had secretly preparing for his death for years.
Arrangements for national announcements,
public mourning, and an elaborate funeral
were already in place.
Still, tradition demanded
that his death only be announced 34 hours later.
Every North Korean remembers where they were
when they heard the news of his death.
Neighbors gathered around the only TV in the street
to hear the news.
Students were called together
so the announcement could be made to the whole school.
Production lines halted
as the news spread through the factories.
The 34,000 statues of Kim Il-Sung dotted around the country
became pilgrimage points for a nation consumed with grief.
From the outside, the outpouring of grief
for Kim Il-Sung's Death seems bizarre.
Was it all for show?
A performative act by people who knew they could be punished
for not seeming sad enough or was it all genuine?
A sign of the thorough brainwashing
that North Korea had been subjected to
by Kim's regime for the last 40 years.
Eyewitnesses vary on their answer.
Many people in North Korea had never known life outside
of the cult of the Kim dynasty,
and the loss of the great leader was an emotional blow
that upended their worldview.
There were others, of course,
who saw him as a tyrant, even if they couldn't voice it.
They knew what had happened to friends, colleagues,
and family members who had dared criticize him in the past.
Supposedly Kim Il-Sung's elaborate state funeral
attracted 2 million people to Pyongyang.
Video footage showed weeping crowds falling to their knees
as the convoy rolled past.
Women collapsed into the arms of their husbands
as they visited Kim lying in state.
Again, it is impossible to draw the line
between what was real and what was for show.
One person who was definitely on show was Kim Jong-Il.
For him, the funeral of his father
was the first official act of his new regime.
Kim was laid to rest in the Kumsusan Palace of the Sun
in a glass coffin,
where his embalmed body can still be seen by visitors today.
He was also made Eternal President of the People's Republic,
a symbol of his continual presence in the political
and ideological life of North Korea.
Reflecting on Kim Il-Sung.
With Kim's death, a new chapter of the nation's history
was about to begin,
but we cannot proceed without taking a moment
to reflect on the man's life.
Modern historian like to move away
from the stories of great men,
but Kim Il-Sung was undeniably a special figure.
His personality cult
and practical power made him the most important person
in his nation for half a century,
and he used that influence to reshape the lives
of millions of people.
Few people ever lived such an impactful life.
Kim must have been disappointed.
Despite his efforts to hide it,
North Korea had fallen behind its Southern enemies
in prosperity, industry, technology, education,
diplomacy, and more.
The dreams of reunification seemed like a distant memory
as western military technology continued
to eclipse their outdated Soviet era weapons.
Newfound diplomatic avenues between North and South showed
that the North was starting to accept
that its neighbor was here to stay.
The continued economic rise of the capitalist nations,
the liberalization of China,
and the collapse of the USSR painted a grim picture
for Kim's beloved Marxist-Leninist ideology.
Many would say it was good riddance.
Kim Il-Sung directly or indirectly caused the deaths
of millions of people between his wars, death camps,
firing squads, and famines.
For every person shedding a tear
in the streets of Pyongyang, there were probably many more
around the world celebrating the demise
of one of the century's most brutal dictators,
but if anyone hoped that the great leader's death
would improve things in North Korea,
they were about to be sorely disappointed.
The reign of Kim Jong-Il.
The legend of Kim Jong-Il.
Kim Il-Sung's death was rather sudden,
but Kim Jong-Il's rise had been anything but.
Kim Jong-Il had held an important place in the operation
and propaganda of the regime for years.
However, he was not his father.
He lacked the true revolutionary pedigree
and exciting life story of Kim Il-Sung.
If he was going to inspire the same loyalty
and enthusiasm, his propaganda machine
would have to work even harder.
As a result,
North Korean propaganda churned ridiculous stories
about Il's life and skills
to make up for his rather uninspiring life story.
It was said he was born on a sacred mountain
and a new star appeared in the sky to mark his birth,
or that his mood could change the weather.
According to the propaganda,
Kim was a creator and an innovator.
He wrote 100s of movie scripts and operas during his life
on top of the many ideological works
that flowed from his pen like scriptures
from the hands of a prophet,
but maybe his greatest creation came in the 2000s
when he invented a reward for outstanding students,
a piece of meat stuck between two pieces of bread.
The West quickly ripped off this stunning innovation
and called it a hamburger,
but North Korea knows the real truth.
Kim was also a peerless sportsman.
During his first game of bowling, he hit a perfect 300.
Then of course there was his legendary golfing talent.
Kim hit 11 holes in one in his first round
of golf in Pyongyang,
and he was so good that he decided to never play again.
Why would he need to
when he was already the best in the world?
Even his toilet habits were mythologized
or his lack thereof.
According to the government, Kim Jong-Il never needed
to use the toilet or attend to the basic bodily needs
that mere mortals dealt with every day.
It's likely that North Korean propaganda
is bending the truth a little bit.
In reality, very little is known
about Kim Jong-Il's private life.
He possessed multiple mistresses
and had at least six children,
although more might have existed out of public view.
Despite his image as a staunch North Korean patriot,
his undying love of Western films was a poorly kept secret
of his private life
and one of the only things we really know
about his life behind closed doors.
The propaganda made the new Kim out to be extraordinary,
but reality was ready to put that to the test.
The North Korean famine.
Between debt, isolation, energy issues,
and economic stagnation,
it would've taken an extraordinary man
to meet the challenges facing North Korea,
and the new Kim did not measure up.
The North's underlying collectivization policy kept
the country on a knife's edge at the best of times.
Therefore, when flooding caused crop failures
across the nation in 1994
and with food aid from the USSR long gone,
North Korea fell into a dreadful famine,
which the regime euphemistically called the "Arduous March."
100s of 1,000s of people began to starve.
Social order broke down.
The black market,
already a ubiquitous feature of North Korean life,
became a lifeline for malnourished families
who were easily exploited.
Many people were forced to migrate
in desperate search for food.
This was technically illegal
as the law required most people to have a permit
to leave their town,
but so many people had no other choice
that there was no practical way to enforce the law.
There were food riots in Hamhung and Sinuiju,
and in some cities roaming gangs of starving orphans took
to the streets in desperate search of food.
The famine had political consequences too.
A group of senior military officers headquartered
in Hamhung City, one of the worst affected areas,
held secret meetings in autumn, 1995.
They discussed the idea of overthrowing Kim
for his failures to address the crisis.
State security services found out about the meetings,
however, and all of the officers were arrested and shot.
Kim Jong-Il was characteristically evasive about the issue.
In a December, 1996 speech,
Kim downplayed the famine as a food problem
and was more concerned about the party's reputation
than the suffering of his people.
He blamed local party officials
for failing to properly educate the masses
in socialist ideas, which made them less loyal
and was leading to social breakdown.
He lamented that "the food problem
is creating a state of anarchy,"
but failed to offer any real solutions to this crisis.
Kim was even reluctant to accept food aid from China
because he felt it weakened and degraded his country.
The Simhwajo and the end of famine.
In 1997, drought extended the famine for another year,
but as the famine raged, Kim Jong-Il kept scrambling
to protect the regime's reputation.
Kim made it illegal to utter the words famine
or starvation in public or private.
Violators could expect a visit from the Simhwajo,
a secret police force established in 1996 to target those
who tarnished the government's image amidst the famine.
No one was safe from the Simhwajo.
The agricultural secretary of the party
was executed by firing squad on their orders.
The general party secretary was tortured to death.
And numerous provincial
and municipal party leaders disappeared,
never to be seen again.
In all, over 10,000 people were killed
and another 15,000 were put into concentration camps
by this shadowy organization.
Despite their efforts to hide it, though,
international observers
and NGO workers soon exposed the extent of the crisis.
By the late '90s,
Pyongyang was forced to accept food aid,
which finally brought the crisis under control,
but not before countless people had perished.
Pyongyang's official estimate
is that 220,000 people died during the famine.
International observers insisted was higher,
anywhere between 600,000 and 3.5 million.
The battle of Yeonpyeong Island.
The famine might explain one
of the biggest skirmishes between North
and South since the armistice.
North Korea was always unhappy
with the armistice's naval boundary
that gave South Korea control over several islands
and valuable fishing spots in the Yellow Sea.
With North Korean starving,
those fishing grounds looked awfully tempting to the regime.
In June, 1999, North Korea sent out small fleets
of patrol in fishing boats
across the naval boundary near Eonpyeong Island.
Naturally South Korea responded with their own patrols,
but neither side wanted to restart the war
over some fish.
For several days,
North Korean ships would cross the boundary,
antagonize the South Koreans, and then retreat back.
Each time, both sides sent a few more ships
and started to bring in heavily armed torpedo boats
to intimidate their opponents.
After a week of this,
South Korea launched a bumping offensive.
Basically the ships started ramming each other.
This carried on for a few days
and ships on both sides were damaged.
It was risky,
since accidentally sinking a ship could make things worse
or one of the military ships could panic
and turn it into a shooting offensive instead.
Unfortunately, that's exactly what happened
on the 15th of June.
A North Korean patrol boat panicked after surrounded
by South Korean ships and opened fire with its cannons.
The South Koreans shot back and for 15 minutes,
the war was back on.
In the end, one North Korean ship was sunk
and five others were badly damaged.
At least 17 North Korean sailors died,
but the South Koreans only had a few minor injuries.
The North Koreans limped back to safety.
The battle of Yeonpyeong island was over,
but the peninsula braced itself for the consequences
and a potential restart of the war.
Fortunately, nothing came of it.
North Korea had learned its lesson for now.
North Korea propaganda told the people
that they had won a tremendous victory
and sunk at least 10 South Korean battleships,
and then quickly buried the event.
Songun.
The Battle of Yeonpyeong Island
was a poor showing for the DPRK,
which must have stung for Kim Jong-Il.
Although he never served on the frontline himself,
Il was obsessed with the military.
He had been appointed to the military commission in 1980
and had been made Supreme Commander
of the Korean People's Army in 1991, giving him years
of prior experience overseeing military affairs.
Kim's enthusiasm for the military
was expressed through his ideal of Songun,
or military first.
Kim placed the military at the center of public life,
ramping up military propaganda and placing its needs
at the top of government priority lists.
By songun's logic, it was the military,
not the common people,
who acted as vanguards for the revolution,
and it was they who were the key
to North Korea's long-term survival.
The military became the model for all of society.
Military discipline, obedience, and loyalty
were to be emulated by all people
in all aspects of North Korean life.
Propaganda recentered the soldier and cast all citizens
as soldiers in the endless war against the DPRK's enemies.
Free markets in North Korea.
Kim didn't neglect the economy either,
but his indecisiveness
and ineffectiveness did little to help anyone.
Songun itself did provide some economic improvement.
There were plenty of jobs
to be had in upgrading the military,
not to mention in conscription,
but those alone weren't enough
to address the country's obvious economic shortcomings.
In 2002, international observers were shocked
to see North Korea seemingly embrace market economics
with the July 1st measures.
Among a number of things,
the July 1st measures adjusted the price of rice
to follow the market,
gave companies and managers greater freedom
to purchase supplies in that market
and work to establish official private markets
for goods and services inside the DPRK.
While hailed as a major reform in foreign media,
in reality, the laws were a little more than a legalization
of black market trade that had been happening for years.
They were an acknowledgement
of the country's underlying problems,
not a solution to them.
The illusion of a new economic turn was furthered in 2004
with the opening of the Kaesong Industrial Park.
This was a joint endeavor by North and South
to improve economic ties.
The Kaesong Park sits about 10 miles north
of the demilitarized zone
and allowed South Korean companies
to employ North Korean labor to produce their goods.
The wages were paid directly to the government,
giving the north a useful source of foreign currency
in exchange for cheap labor for the Southern companies.
Although small in scale, it was a productive diplomatic step
for the two Koreas
and was an unusually direct attempt by Pyongyang
to harness the power of capitalist business practices.
Despite the hope of foreign observers,
these changes were not as significant
as foreign media presented them,
and Pyongyang quickly got cold feet.
After a few years,
they clamped down hard on market training,
banning all working age men and later all women under 50
from participating in it.
These bans probably didn't have much real effect
on black market trading, but it signaled that Kim Jong-Il
had not suddenly become a fan of free market economics.
George Bush and the axis of evil.
As North Korea entered the new millennium,
it found itself increasingly villainized by the world.
After 2000,
the Bush administration took an increasingly firm line
on Pyongyang and turned up their rhetoric.
North Korea also faced renewed scrutiny
from an international community
that saw it as a relic of times passed.
One driver of this new scrutiny was Lee Soon Ok,
a defector who had spent five years
in a North Korean concentration camp.
Her 1999 memoir told tales of forced labor,
the torture of prisoners, mandatory abortions,
and public executions.
In 2002, as part of the Bush administration's harder line
on North Korea, she was invited to speak to the US Congress
about her experiences there,
holding up the dark underbelly of Kim's Korea
for the world to see.
In 2002, Bush described North Korea,
alongside Iraq and Iran, as an axis of evil.
In the wake of the 9/11 attacks,
the US was wary of rogue states, like the DPRK,
sponsoring attacks on American civilians.
Given Kim Jong-Il's involvement
with terror attacks such as the bombing of Flight 858,
it wasn't an unreasonable concern.
The US' allies joined in its caution towards Pyongyang,
and neither Russia nor China was strong enough
to be an alternative ally to challenge the US
as they had during the Cold War.
Nuclear North Korea.
It's perhaps no surprise
that Kim Jong-Il continued his country's nuclear program
amidst this hostility.
The 1994 nuclear agreement spearheaded
by Jimmy Carter failed to prevent North Korea continuing
its nuclear missile development.
The Clinton administration had tried
to engage Pyongyang in negotiations
to stall the development of ballistic missiles,
but achieved very little.
And Kim Jong-IL became skilled at using the nuclear program
as leverage to gain more economic aid.
By 2002, the CIA believed North Korea possessed
at least one nuclear weapon
and had the capacity to create even more.
However, the first known successful detonation
didn't occur until October, 2006.
Reality still constrained Kim, though.
His nuclear weapons would not solve the energy
or economic crisises afflicting his country.
Pyongyang ultimately needed a functioning nation more
than they needed nuclear weapons.
And so in 2007, after multiple conferences with the US,
South Korea, Japan, Russia, and China,
North Korea agreed to suspend its weapons program
and shut down its main nuclear reactor at Yongbyon
in exchange for diplomatic concessions
and massive amounts of fuel and economic aid.
It was a short-lived concession.
The North refused to accept international observers
to inspect its reactors and continue to test rockets
that could be capable of delivering nuclear payloads.
When the UN sanctioned them,
the DPRK announced it was resuming its weapons program
and reactor operations in full capacity.
The Won revaluation crisis of 2009.
The biggest stumble of Kim's regime probably came
with the disastrous money reforms in 2009.
That year, Pyongyang had the bright idea
of reforming the currency.
It was standard fare for a communist regime,
announced that all existing bank notes
will be taken out of circulation and made worthless,
and people have a short window to exchange them
for new bank notes.
However, Pyongyang set daily limits
on how much currency people could exchange,
which meant that most people would lose money
by being unable to convert it in the short timeframe.
This was intentional.
The regime wanted to reduce the money supply
to reduce inflation while wiping out illegal savings made
by black marketeers and other criminals.
The end goal was for the new one Won
to buy as much as the old 100 Won,
but economics is not that simple,
especially not with Kim Jong-Il at the helm.
It seems that Kim Jong-Il felt the reforms
would punish loyal workers.
After all, why should they lose money under the reforms?
He had a solution.
Every government employee,
which meant almost everyone in the country,
would keep the same numerical wage
after the reforms as before.
Of course, since one Won would be worth 100 times more
after the reforms,
Kim was basically increasing nearly every wage
in the country by 10,000%.
Obviously, this was a catastrophe.
The reforms produced confusion, chaos,
and colossal inflation.
Prices soared.
The government tried to control them,
but reality forced people to ignore the price caps.
The regime was forced to close markets and shops
to try and reign things in.
Economic confusion and panic produced shortages
of basic goods.
These reforms affected everyone from peasants to generals,
and perhaps for the first time ever,
the idea that the regime might be overthrown became
a real possibility.
Foreign students remembered North Koreans openly complaining
about the policy,
and one North Korean diplomat angrily told
a foreign representative
that the government "doesn't understand what it's doing."
Never had criticism of the regime
by its own citizens been so public or so widespread.
By April of 2010, however, conditions had stabilized.
As people figured out the actual value of money,
the economy started to function properly again.
Soon after, the government rolled back almost all bans
on market activity
and explicitly ordered local authorities not to intervene
in markets except to deal with illegal goods.
The revaluation debacle
was almost certainly Kim Jong-Il's doing.
One historian described him as comically incompetent
on economic issues, and only he could have proposed
such an obviously stupid plan without anyone criticizing it.
Several high ranking officials,
including the head of economic policy in the KWP
were scapegoated and executed or arrested,
and the regime quickly buried the event
and denied anything bad happened.
It might not be the most exciting episode
in North Korean history,
but it might well be the closest the regime came
to collapsing from within.
Skirmishes with South Korea.
Internal problems
did not stop North Korea creating external problems
for itself, though.
Kim apparently hadn't let go of the dispute
over fishing grounds in the Yellow Sea
that it spilled over into skirmishes early into his reign.
North and South again exchanged fire
over fishing rights off Daecheong Island in November, 2009,
resulting in an uncertain number of North Korean casualties.
Given the tension in the area,
it was natural for South Korea to keep ships nearby.
One of those ships was the ROKS Cheonan.
On the night of the 26th of March, 2010,
the Cheonan was suddenly rocked by an explosion.
The shocked crew scrambled to save her,
but within 10 minutes, the ship had broken in half
and sunk just off the coast of Baengnyeong Island.
46 of its 104 crew drowned.
South Korean officials scrambled for an explanation.
There were no reports of conflict
or North Korean ships in the area.
An extensive investigation eventually determined
that a North Korean torpedo had detonated beneath the ship.
Fragments of the torpedo were recovered,
and it was concluded that a small North Korean submarine
had fired on them.
Pyongyang denied the accusation,
and was supported by both China and Russia.
Counter arguments claimed that the Cheonan
had collided with the sea floor
and caused damage that led to the sudden explosion
or that it had struck a sea mine.
Several academic studies have failed
to settle on an explanation,
but South Korea and its allies continue to believe
that North Korea was responsible.
The sinking of the Cheonan caused relations to nose dive
and rhetoric on both sides heated up in the following years.
These tensions led to another engagement
between North and South at Yeonpyeong Island.
When South Korean forces performed naval exercises
around the disputed island,
North Korea fired almost 200 artillery shells at homes
and military installations, which killed four people.
and injured around 20.
The South fired back and killed 10 North Korean soldiers
before both sides seized fire.
The North blamed the South for provoking them
with military exercises.
While the South insisted
that the North bore full responsibility
for opening fire without just cause.
It is possible that the North was trying
to make a statement against South Korea's admittance
to the G20 earlier in 2010.
Whatever the reason for the attack,
it's likely Kim Jong-Il himself was involved.
He had visited one of the artillery bases
where Shells had been fired from the day before,
and such a blatant provocation
would've needed high level approval,
but if Kim Jong-Il really was committed
to armed provocation, then South Korea
was about to catch a lucky break.
Death of a dictator.
In 2011, death once again struck the Kim regime
without warning.
On the 19th of December,
the government announced the sudden death
of Kim Jong-Il from a heart attack two days earlier.
(speaking in Korean)
It claimed he'd been traveling aboard his personal train
when he suffered the fatal attack.
South Korean intelligence was skeptical
of his claim since their spies reported
that his train hadn't moved around the time of his death,
but whatever the real circumstances of his death were,
have been completely buried by the regime.
As with his father's death,
the DPRK was consumed with scenes of grief and distress.
Crowds wept as they listened to the announcement,
and his funeral was an elaborate spectacle
for the tearful masses.
Once again, how sincere these displays were
is up for debate.
Kim Jong-Il had officially ruled
for less than half the length of his father's reign,
and unlike his father
had not thrown out any Japanese occupiers
or waged any wars against its great enemies.
Il's reign was also one of clear economic deprivation,
of famine, and of North Korea's further decline
into a pariah state,
and even the laughing stock of the international community,
who only got taken seriously when it threatened
to destroy the world,
promises it almost certainly couldn't back up.
Still, the propaganda machine didn't slow down
for his death any more than it did for his life.
According to the regime,
storms paused and the sky glowed red
at the moment of his death.
He was given the posthumous internal title
of Grand Marshall, a symbol of his focus on the military
and a sign of how important the military had become
to the regime under his leadership.
It was time for a new Kim to take power,
but unlike Kim Jong-Il who had almost two decades
of experience in politics under his belt,
the newcomer to the throne was untested, inexperienced,
and an unknown quantity for the rest of the world,
Kim Jong Un.
The reign of Kim Jong Un.
Kim Jong Un's origins.
Unlike his father, Kim Jong Un
was not originally meant to be his father's successor.
His elder half-brother, Kim Jong Nam,
was the intended heir until he embarrassed the nation
by getting caught using a fake passport
to visit Disneyland, Tokyo in 2001.
The new Kim had actually spent a large part
of his childhood outside of North Korea.
He spent most of the 1990s being educated in Europe,
first in Switzerland, and then in Germany.
By all accounts, Kim Jong Un was a normal kid.
Apparently he was a quiet but generally pleasant young man,
and no one could have expected that he was destined
to be a totalitarian dictator.
He loved basketball from a young age
and remains a fan to this day,
and classmates remember he was into video games too.
Kim returned to North Korea
to study at Kim Il Sung University.
And very little is known
about his life until his father suffered a small stroke
in 2008.
This health scare forced Kim Jong-Il
to consider succession.
And in 2009, word spread through the ranks of the KWP
that a new heir had been chosen.
Kim Jong Un stepped into the spotlight in late 2010.
He was promoted to four star general
despite having no military experience
and began attending events
and on the spot guidance sessions with his father.
Propaganda had signaled him as the heir apparent,
but he was never actually announced as such
before his father's demise.
It must have been a shock
to find power falling into his hands so soon,
for him and everyone else in Pyongyang.
Un's reforms.
With the little grounding in the running of the country
and plenty of foreign experience under his belt,
it was no surprise that Kim Jong Un caused a change
in North Korean government.
A hallmark of Kim Jong Un's tenure
has been a pivot away from the military
and back towards the party.
Party officials, not military officials,
have increasingly become the most influential figures
in government.
The Permanent National Defense Commission
was abolished in favor of a State Affairs Commission
that focused less on external military threats
and more on internal economic and social goals.
This change has several root causes.
The first might be that Kim Jong Un himself
does not have strong military credentials, unlike his father
who held nominal leadership positions in the armed forces
and coordinated foreign operations
for military intelligence.
Un's military titles are a little more than ceremonial.
The decreasing emphasis
on the military also reflected a changing world.
The prospect of North Korea resolving any of its disputes
with military force is more unlikely than ever,
plus its enemies are now incomparably more advanced
than them on the battlefield.
There is no reason to expect the military to be the key
to a prosperous future for the DPRK.
That isn't to say the military isn't still important,
of course it is,
however it is not the absolute priority of Un's regime
as it was for his father,
and the generals seem to have lost their place in favor
of the party apparatchiks and industrial managers.
The purge of Jang Song-Thaek.
Given the power of the Kim Cult, it was perhaps inevitable
that the biggest threats to the regime
would emerge within the family.
Kim Jong Un came to see one in his uncle, Jang Song-Thaek.
Song-Thaek was a veteran administrator
with decades of experience
and many loyal allies in the regime.
The prospect of him succeeding his brother, Kim Jong-Il,
had been a possibility considered by foreign intelligence
and, it seems, in the corridors of power and Pyongyang.
The old guard of Pyongyang cannot have been thrilled
to be led by a young, inexperienced Kim Jong Un.
So Jang represented a potential alternative.
At first, Jang maintained significant power
under his nephew's regime.
He took a leading role in diplomatic relations with China
and continued to exercise significant influence over policy.
However, by late 2012,
Kim Jong Un began pushing him out of power.
He was moved out of diplomatic affairs
and excluded from national security meetings.
The breaking point appears to have been over fish.
Jang and Un had a falling out over control over fisheries
in the Yellow Sea.
Details are vague, but the New York Times reported
that gunfire was exchanged between forces loyal to Jang
and those loyal to Kim Jong Un.
Shortly after, Jang was stripped of his post,
accused of treason, and arrested.
A scathing 3000 word statement declared Jang a traitor
who worked to undermine the DPRK for decades.
He was accused of countless crimes ranging from conspiracy
to corrupt the youth, right down to half-heartedly clapping.
Jang was executed by firing squad on December 12th, 2013.
Some of Jang's allies also fell from grace,
most harshly of all, the deputy security ministers,
O Sang Hon, who was burned to death with a flamethrower
in 2014.
It was the most high profile purge in the DPR case history
and a powerful statement of Kim Jong Un's power,
which showed that he was no less ruthless
than his predecessors
Kim Jong Un's image.
That being said, Kim has tried to show himself as a softer,
more friendly leader than his father.
Kim Il-Sung and Kim Jong-Il had projected the image
of a paternal but firm military leader
with deep ideological commitments.
Kim Jong Un, on the other hand, quickly established himself
as more concerned with social and economic issues
than military ones and proved to be more open
to foreign culture within limits.
In July, 2012, Kim shocked the world
by appearing at a flashy pop concert in Pyonyang,
complete with Western music
and unusually scandalous costume choices
for an overly modest North Korea.
There were also performers dressed as Western icons
like Mickey Mouse and Winnie the Pooh.
Kim's companion to this concert also turned heads.
His wife, Ri Sol Ju, previous wives and mistresses
had mostly been hidden from public view.
So Kim's public display of his wife was a surprising change.
It suggested that this new Kim was more approachable,
more human, and less detached from the world
as his venerated forerunners were.
Experts have attributed Kim's new style
to his childhood in Switzerland.
He grew up experiencing Western culture
and hadn't expected to be leader,
so it is natural for him to be less hostile to the West
and less aloof than previous leaders.
Basketball diplomacy.
Nowhere has Kim's differences in attitude been more apparent
than in his love of basketball.
Kim's obsession with basketball has been lifelong.
Schoolmates recalled that Kim
was an enthusiastic basketball player
and was often found sketching pictures
of Michael Jordan in class.
While he was generally shy,
Kim was an entirely different person on the court,
being more confident and competitive when playing
than he ever was in regular life.
Apparently, he had a room in his apartment in Germany filled
with NBA merchandise
and photos of famous players like Kobe Bryant.
Unlike his father's love of Western films, however,
Kim Jong Un has not been shy about showing his love
for this iconically American game to the public.
In 2013, legendary basketball player Dennis Rodman
was surprised to receive an invite from Kim
to visit Pyongyang.
Rodman accepted and traveled there
with several other players and a pack of journalists.
This was the start of one
of history's most bizarre friendships.
Rodman has visited Kim several times,
and the two enjoy a good relationship.
Kim and Rodman have been pictured watching games
and laughing together, and the two have exchanged gifts.
In 2014, Rodman was roundly criticized in the Western media
for singing Happy Birthday to the dictator.
- Happy birthday to you.
Happy birthday to you. (audience clapping)
Happy birthday to you.
- [Narrator] Rodman has continued his friendship with Kim
and visited North Korea multiple times.
While Rodman has no official diplomatic role,
his ability to exercise soft power
and potentially influence Kim as his friend
or raise delicate issues directly
has been considered a useful diplomatic tool.
Although Rodman does not appear
to have achieved any diplomatic progress
with this friendship, it remains one
of the most unusual anecdotes in the history
of an already unusual country.
Culture laws.
Kim's acknowledgement of foreign culture is surprising,
but it is tightly controlled and very limited.
It might even be misleading since in many ways,
Kim Jong Un is harsher on foreign culture
than his predecessors were.
He has instituted a variety of harsh cultural laws designed
to protect against foreign influence
and preserve North Korea's own culture.
Many things that the regime deems to be anti-socialist
have been all but outlawed.
The internet is the obvious first priority
for controlling modern culture.
Only a handful of people
in the country may access the global internet,
and even academic institutions
are not permitted full access.
The average North Korean is only permitted access
to North Korea's special internet service called Kwangmyong.
Kwangmyong is an entirely isolated network exclusive
to the country that allows the regime
to control all the information its citizens can access.
Outside of the internet,
music, film, and fashion
which contradicts Pyongyang's ideals
and sense of morality are banned.
One of South Korea's most famous exports, K-pop,
has been described as a vicious cancer by Kim,
and the New York Times reported
that seven people had been executed for listening to
or sharing K-pop music.
Western fashion, typically seen as too revealing
and immodest, is prohibited.
Haircuts are also famously controlled too.
There are 15 state-permitted haircuts as of 2017.
All of them designed to be practical
for the good socialist worker
and free of the needless extravagance
of a capitalist consumer.
These laws may seem strange to an outsider,
but they make sense to the internal logic of North Korea.
To allow any uncontrolled aspects of Western culture
to slip through is to risk the fate of the USSR or China,
who collapsed or reformed in the face of Western pressure.
Furthermore, the thorough commodification of Western culture
is a blatant capitalist intrusion
upon the North's continued commitment to socialism.
In Kim's eyes, the K-pop itself isn't really the issue,
but what it represents,
a seemingly unstoppable wave of foreign influence
that his regime must contain
in order to protect North Korea's way of life.
Day in the life of an average North Korean.
So what does life look like
for an average North Korean today?
Most people wake up, attend to their family,
go to their state-assigned job
and savor their leisure time when they can.
Propaganda speakers blare in the background
and state mandated events
or holidays occasionally disrupt life,
but the average day for a North Korean citizen
is not some alien venture.
The average North Korean
is far poorer than the average Westerner.
They do not have access to the same diverse range of food,
heaps of modern technology, fancy clothes,
or other luxuries.
As of 2019, just 26% of households
had access to electricity,
rising to just over a third for those in urban areas.
Some of the larger cities
have also seen increased automobile ownership
in recent years,
although the average rural family will never own a vehicle.
Some of these more rural areas are truly undeveloped.
Isolated villages might not even have running water,
let alone electricity.
Although most people live in relative poverty,
there is a growing middle class in the big cities.
A comfortable lifestyle with expensive restaurants
and a department stores
are increasingly available to the middle classes,
even if that middle class is a small percentage
of the population.
The contrast between rich and poor can be astounding.
Defectors have always stressed that above all,
North Koreans are normal people too.
The regime and its ideology are more prominent in their life
than such things are for most people,
but they fade into the background in the day to day.
Like everyone else in the world,
the average North Korean is more concerned
about their family, their job, their love life,
their friends and hobbies than they are
about the ideological mission of their country.
Many may believe wholeheartedly in it
and some certainly oppose it,
but most people fall somewhere in between.
As long as they can live their lives,
politics is a secondary concern.
Nuclear threats.
It can be easy to forget that North Korea is a nation
of normal people when most of our exposure
to the country seems to come
from its promises of nuclear destruction upon its enemies.
Kim Jong Un has reemphasized the old idea of Byungjin,
applied specifically to the country's nuclear mission,
believing that the economic future of the nation
is inseparable from its ability to acquire nuclear weapons.
Even education is pivoted towards it,
with the best students encouraged
to enter nuclear related fields
and graduates frequently being snapped up
by the nuclear weapons development sector.
While Kim Jong-Il had seen to the creation
of his country's first nuclear weapon,
Kim Jong Un's task was delivery.
His regime has been especially interested
in ballistic missile technology that would allow it
to deliver those weapons onto enemy soil.
Kim signaled his commitment to this early,
even in the face of international condemnation.
The launch of the Kwangmyongsong-3 satellite
in December, 2012 was roundly condemned
because it was seen as a thinly veiled attempt
to test ballistic missile technology.
Since the rocket utilized the same technology,
the launch led to increased rhetoric on both sides,
which only worsened when the North claimed
to detonate another nuclear device in early 2013.
During a disarmament conference in Geneva, shortly after,
a North Korean diplomat even threatened
the final destruction of South Korea.
As has become a pattern for Kim Jong Un's regime,
these provocative nuclear tests heightened tensions
for a few months before ebbing away.
It occurred again in November, 2017 when the DPRK test fired
its first nuclear capable ballistic missile,
the Hwasong-15.
The Hwasong test was critical
because it proved that North Korea had missiles capable
of hitting the continental United States.
Cyber warfare.
While its nuclear program grabs headlines,
arguably Pyongyang's most potent modern weapon
is cyber warfare.
Even Kim Jong-Il was conscious of the power
of new technology and supposedly once said,
"if the internet is like a gun,
cyber attacks are like atomic bombs."
The North's cyber capabilities are nothing to scoff at.
Pyongyang maintains an army of talented hackers
that strengthened the regime in many ways.
From running international scams to steal money,
to hacking into foreign military databases to pillage data,
a 2019 UN report estimated that North Korea
had raised $2 billion from this type of cyber crime.
Most people in the West first realized the power
of North Korean cyber crime in 2014
when Sony released the Seth Rogen
and James Franco comedy, The Interview,
a film where the clumsy heroes must infiltrate North Korea
and assassinate Kim Jong Un himself.
Pyongyang was furious, calling it provocative insanity
and a most blatant act of terrorism and war.
In response, DPRK hackers broke into Sony systems,
leaking emails, salaries, scripts,
and even whole films that hadn't been released.
The entire company was crippled
for days in what President Obama announced
as an act of cyber vandalism.
A more elaborate and damaging cyber attack occurred
throughout 2015 when hackers spent months infiltrating
the Bangladesh National Bank.
They spent months creating back doors into systems
that allowed them to place withdrawal requests
for massive amounts of money.
The hackers attempted to withdraw almost a billion dollars
in February, 2016 and made off with $101 million
before security systems caught on.
That same year,
North Korean hackers stole over 200 gigabytes
of top secret military intelligence from South Korea
in 2016, including detailed plans
for a conflict with the North
and an assassination plot for Kim Jong Un.
Probably the worst cyber attack
was a 2017 ransomware attack
where around 300,000 computers across the world
were struck with a crypto worm.
North Korean hackers targeted computers belonging
to numerous organizations ranging from Microsoft
to the British National Health Service,
demanding payment in Bitcoin for the attack to stop.
It took over seven hours for the attack to be contained
and several days for it to be fully stopped,
and in that time, it caused billions in damages.
The world has adapted to North Korea's capabilities
and governments now take the threat extremely seriously,
but it is only a matter of time
until Pyongyang's hackers strike again.
Education.
Of course, building that hacking network requires education,
and that is something that the regime
has also taken seriously since its inception.
Universal education was put in place in 1959,
guaranteeing up to 11 years of free education,
including costs of uniforms, textbooks,
and other necessities for all children.
Official statistics assert that almost all children
are enrolled for education in North Korea,
and while some surely slipped through the cracks,
all evidence supports the idea that education is one area
that the DPRK has succeeded with.
In 2012, Kim Jong Un expanded
and adjusted that education provision.
Now the state guarantees 12 years of education
on a 6, 3, 3 system of six years in elementary,
three in middle school, and three in high school.
Of course propaganda is a big part of that education.
The history of the revolution
and the deeds of the Kim Dynasty
are mandatory subjects in school,
but North Korean children also receive a robust education
in literacy, mathematics, and other subjects
that stand up to the education available
in most developed countries.
Higher education is more limited.
Being so closed off,
North Korea has a small community of academics
and very little chance
to participate in global academic debate.
Higher education, therefore, focuses
on producing practical skills,
especially in fields that have military applications.
The peak of the higher education period
is Pyongyang's Kim Il-Sung University.
With 16,000 students, it is by far the largest
and best funded university in the country.
In recent years, Kim Jong Un has opened the country
to limited academic exchange.
Several hundred students, mostly Chinese,
are permitted to study in North Korea,
although they are closely watched.
Increasingly the most exceptional
and trustworthy North Korean students
have been granted permission to study abroad.
The regime has long recognized that North Korean education
cannot match that available elsewhere
or else Kim Jong Un himself would've been fully educated
in country.
And these students offer a chance to bring foreign knowledge
and skills back for the benefit of the DPRK.
Tourism in North Korea.
Students aren't the only people coming
into North Korea more often since Kim Jong Un took power.
As of 2013, tightly controlled
and well-monitored tourist groups
have been allowed to enter North Korea.
This is no simple holiday.
Regime officials travel with tour groups everywhere.
Itineraries must be adhered to without question,
and tourists may not ask unapproved questions
or enter unapproved places during their time in the DPRK.
Most foreign tourists will stay
at the Yanggakdo International Hotel in Pyongyang.
It has many of the amenities one would expect from a hotel,
a restaurant, a pool, a sauna, and even a massage room.
Guests might find it hard to relax, though.
It is generally accepted that the authorities spy
on every guest and the entire fifth floor
is strictly off limits to tourists,
where many believe the North Koreans oversee surveillance
of the guests.
Tourists are ushered
to carefully prepared propaganda sites around the country.
These include the giant statues of the Kim family,
great projects like the Nampo Dam,
and a series of resorts, aquatic parks,
and other tourist sites constructed in the recent years.
Despite the propaganda hurled at them, tourists report
that the North Korean people are generally friendly
and somewhat curious about foreigners.
They are still careful not to utter anything
that will send them to a concentration camp,
but tourism has allowed North Koreans
to see that those beyond their borders
aren't the destructive monsters
that state propaganda depicts them as.
Otto Frederick Warmbier.
The rules governing tourism are rigidly enforced.
As one American college student learned
in the most tragic way.
Otto Frederick Warmbier
was a bright and friendly American college student
who loved to travel.
In December, 2015, he took the opportunity of a lifetime
to visit North Korea.
After a whirlwind five day tour,
Warmbier was ready to go back home
with the other members of his tour group.
However, as he waited in the terminal,
two North Korean soldiers approached him and took him away.
Warmbier's life and that of his family
were about to change forever.
Warmbier was accused of stealing a propaganda poster
from Yanggakdo Hotel.
This is extremely illegal in North Korea
and is seen as an attack on the regime.
No one knows what Warmbier experienced in captivity.
All we have is a confession where Warmbier claims
that the US government put him up to the crime
and had manipulated him into attacking the DPRK.
The absurd confession didn't save him
and Warmbier was sentenced to 15 years in a labor camp.
- Oh, I was used and manipulated.
Please, you have to save me.
Please save my life.
- [Narrator] The US government continued to negotiate
for Warmbier's release
and finally got it 17 months later in June, 2017,
but something was horribly wrong.
The North Koreans informed them
that Warmbier had fallen into a coma back in April, 2016.
They blamed food poisoning.
Warmbier was breathing, but was completely paralyzed
and unresponsive
and was only kept alive with a feeding tube.
Warmbier was flown back to the US,
but there was nothing anyone could do.
Doctors believed his brain had been deprived
of oxygen causing permanent brain damage.
One suggestion
was that the North Koreans used water torture on him.
Other Americans who had been in North Korean captivity
had suffered it, and one man admitted
to seeing a young American boy
matching Warmbier's description left unconscious
and covered in water being dragged through a prison,
With no hope of recovery,
Warmbier's feeding tube was removed on June 19th, 2017.
The US government condemned North Korea for his death,
but the regime played the victim.
They called the news reports a smear campaign
and said that they had only ever shown mercy
to a "criminal of the enemy state."
Escaping North Korea.
With everything we've heard, it's no surprise
that so many people want to get out of North Korea.
People have been escaping North Korea since its inception.
The number of successful North Korean defectors
has varied over time.
It peaked at several 1,000 per year,
with at least as many failed attempts under Kim Jong-Il
before declining sharply under the tighter policies
of Kim Jong Un.
In 2022, just 67 defectors made it to South Korea.
This decline has been driven almost entirely
by improved border security
along the few possible escape routes.
The most obvious but risky escape route is across the DMZ.
The border with South Korea is watched carefully by soldiers
and is covered in barbed wire fences, watch towers,
and even minefields.
An alternative route is across the northern border
with China.
This border is watched too with barbed wire
and guard patrols, covering huge parts of the border,
but not all of the terrain can be easily watched.
Mountainous passages and sheer cliffs offer a chance
to slip by unnoticed.
Guards can sometimes be bribed too, but it's risky.
Even if a defector can get into China, they're not safe.
The Chinese government has a standard policy
to deport all defectors back to North Korea.
Instead, the defectors must travel through China
and enter Southeast Asia.
Some go by land while others follow the Mekong River
until they reach the safety of countries like Thailand.
Sea escapes to the Philippines are also known.
When they reach a country that won't deport them
to North Korea,
the defectors can present themselves to authorities.
South Korea had a long standing program
to take in defectors from anywhere
and will make arrangements for these escapees
to settle in their country.
Anyone who is caught while attempting to escape
can expect harsh punishment.
Many will just be shot on site.
An underground network has sprung up to aid defectors,
but the new policies make this riskier than ever.
Ha Jin-Woo,
an activist who helps other defectors escape via China,
estimated for the BBC that the success rate
for defection has fallen from about 50% under Kim Jong-Il
to less than 10% in recent years.
Assassination of Kim Jong-Nam.
In reality, there is little hope of safety
or escape from the regime,
not even for the leader's own brother.
Kim Jong Un's elder half-brother, Kim Jong Nam,
lived a mostly private life,
Traveling around the world since being passed over as heir,
he lived in several places around the world
and enjoyed a comfortable life thanks
to his family's wealth.
However, he was candid in his criticism
of his half brother's regime,
telling one Japanese journalist that "without reforms,
North Korea will collapse."
Nam's frankness
and his brother's vengeance caught up with him
in February, 2017.
While waiting for a flight at Kuala Lumpur Airport
in Malaysia, two women approached Nam.
One threw a bottle of liquid at his face
while another covered his mouth with a damp cloth.
After a brief scuffle, the two women ran away
and Nam immediately suspected he'd been poisoned.
Nam was right.
The women had attacked him with a VX nerve agent,
a highly illegal chemical weapon
that is banned in most countries.
Nam rushed to get medical aid,
but within 20 minutes, he was dead.
It did not take long to determine his identity,
and authorities were quick to conclude
that this was an assassination.
The two women were identified as a Vietnamese citizen
and an Indonesian citizen,
but when they were questioned by police,
they claimed they knew nothing about a nerve agent.
Both women claimed they'd been approached
to take part in a prank show
and had performed several pranks
on unsuspecting people before this.
It is believed that Kim Jong Un
had a standing order for his half-brother's murder.
North Korean agents recruited the two women
under false claims of working for a TV prank show
and had them perform several pranks
to trick them into thinking it was real.
Murder charges were dropped against the women,
but the agents who put them up to the act
have never been caught.
Kim and Trump reconciliation.
Clearly, dealing with North Korea is always a delicate
and dangerous endeavor.
Naturally, the election of the very undelicate Donald Trump
as US president
in 2016 caused some concern regarding the Korean issue.
Kim Jong Un did not give up his nuclear tests
in the face of this new unpredictable leader,
and Twitter became the bizarre new avenue
for Trump's unique brand of diplomacy,
where he famously threatened North Korea's Little Rocket Man
with his much bigger and more functional Nuclear Button.
We do not know what North Korea thought
about this new approach.
However, following heightened tensions
from the Hwasong Missile test in 2017,
Korea's diplomatic tune suddenly changed.
The North sent a delegation
to the Winter Olympics in Seoul in early 2018
and extended an invite
to the South Korean President, Bon Ki-Moon,
to visit the North.
The leaders of both Korea's also met
at the demilitarized zone
and agreed to work towards denuclearization
of the peninsula.
This was followed by an agreement between Kim
and Trump in Singapore in June,
where Trump echoed the commitment to denuclearization
and agreed to scale back military exercises
as a sign of goodwill.
Maybe it shouldn't be a surprise
that such an unusual president
would be the key to making progress with an unusual nation.
In June, 2019, Donald Trump and King Jong Un
had an unprecedented meeting at the DMZ
where they discussed plans for further deescalation
and additional talks in the near future.
For a while, things seemed to be looking up.
Unfortunately, these talks broke down in October, 2019
and a hope for a new age
of North Korean relations collapsed.
Kim was not ready to make concessions on the nuclear issue
and he soon resumed his tests in spite of American
and South Korean protests.
Once again, the nation would retreat inwards,
continuing to cut itself off from the outside world
and maintaining its own tightly controlled bubble
where its citizens' abilities to move, work,
or even voice opinions
was restricted in the name of collective security.
Little did anyone know this state
would soon describe most of the world.
North Korea and COVID-19.
North Korea's isolation proved to be a blessing
in January, 2020 when COVID-19 hit.
With entry to the country already under strict control
and borders vigilantly watched by soldiers,
it was easy for North Korea to seal itself off
from the pandemic.
Officially North Korea avoided COVID
for the whole of 2020 and 2021.
Outside sources are skeptical that it was completely free,
but no evidence of any widespread pandemic exists
for the first two years.
In fact, not much evidence for anything exists
for those years from North Korea.
Foreign governments had bigger concerns,
and the North had no interest in opening up
in letting the virus through, so we know even less
about what happened there than we usually do.
We do know that North Korea took COVID extremely seriously.
Strict lockdowns were put in place
and thorough quarantine procedures were established
for anyone with symptoms resembling COVID.
When a single COVID-19 case was rumored in the city
of Kaesong, Kim Jong Un locked down the whole city
for three weeks.
It was a false alarm,
but it shows how harsh Kim's response to the pandemic was.
It was reported that violators
of North Korea's movement restrictions were executed,
and in one case,
the North Korean Navy killed a South Korean fisherman
and sunk his ship because he posed a COVID risk.
International trade almost completely stopped
and the regime rolled back
its public parades citing health concerns.
However, given how tightly controlled life usually was
in North Korea, the pandemic was much less
of a change there than it was for most people in the world.
North Korea's late pandemic.
However, these measures weren't enough to escape entirely.
North Korea announced its first COVID case to the world
on the 12th of May, 2022.
The government declared a national emergency
and Kim issued a statement saying
that the nation faced its greatest challenge
since the revolution.
With reports of starvation due to food shortages
on top of North Korea's poor medical system,
outside observers feared a catastrophe.
The fact that Pyongyang
had turned down multiple vaccine offers
was also a big concern.
North Korea insisted that other countries
that needed the more get them first,
although some saw the stubbornness
of Juche ideology at the core of their refusal,
and there were fears that this decision would backfire.
Fortunately, North Korea only faced
the much less deadly omicron variant.
What happened next
is up to whether you trust government statistics.
Although almost 5 million cases were reported
in a matter of months,
hitting 20% of the country's population,
only 74 people were reported to have died,
and the pandemic fizzled out by September.
Most scholars on the topic believe the actual death toll
is higher, probably in the 1,000s,
but probably far smaller than the death toll seen
in South Korea or other countries
that face the deadlier early waves.
Like the rest of the world,
North Korea emerged from the pandemic shaken
and facing the prospect of a new and uncertain future.
North Korea in 2023.
2023 has been a relatively quiet year for North Korea.
It has continued its missile tests
and issued its usual bluing statements
about destroying the US and South Korea
if they provoke them, but nothing out of the ordinary.
In May, they tried to launch their first spy satellite based
on technology from its ICBM project,
but the rocket crashed into the sea after launch.
They tried and failed again in August,
and will no doubt try further tests in the future.
North Korea grabbed headlines in late July
with the rare defection of a US soldier across the border.
Private Travis King was stationed in South Korea
and was taking a walking tour of the border
when he suddenly ran away from his group
and crossed into North Korean territory.
King, who is Black,
blamed racism and mistreatment in the US
for making him defect.
In truth, it probably had to do with him facing punishment
for an assault he committed in South Korea.
King was released back to US custody in September,
and his fate is yet to be decided.
Pyongyang has also grabbed headlines for its tacit support
of Russia's invasion of Ukraine.
Kim Jong Un met Vladimir Putin in September
to discuss the possibility
of supplying weapons for the war effort.
Kim, like Putin, sees the conflict
as a proxy war against its great enemies
in the United States and Nato.
Things are quite different today than from the 1950s,
but Pyongyang and Moscow still see themselves
as allies in an endless confrontation
against the capitalist Western powers.
Whether that war ever comes and whether the Kim regime
will be around to see it is anyone's guess.
The future of North Korea.
It has been said that North Korea has two paths to collapse,
to reform or not to reform.
To continue unchanged will inevitably bring about collapse
as the world leaves it behind,
but mismanaged reform that doesn't do enough
or does too much too quickly risks toppling
the system altogether.
Back in 2011, Kim Jong-Nam,
who might be expected to have known a thing or two
about his family's regime commented
that "the North Korean leadership is stuck in a bind.
Without reforms, the country's economy will go bankrupt,
but reforms are fraught with the danger
of systemic collapse."
Kim Jong Un seems to be trying to forge a middle path.
Kim's internal shift away from military power,
his openness to tourism and education,
and his embracing of modern technology
and some limited foreign culture hints
at a prospect of change.
However, the ever tighter grip the regime wields
over its people, its stronger border enforcement,
and its continued nuclear threats show that Pyongyang
is far from ready to set aside its old ways
and seek a new path of peace and cooperation.
As global tensions increase between the West
and both Russia and China,
North Korea continues to be anchored to its old allies,
even if it increasingly feels like a bizarre relic
of a bygone era.
Meanwhile, the contrast between North and South is extreme.
Per capita income in the South is about 15 times higher
than the North, by far the largest income gap
between two nations that share a land border anywhere
in the world.
To put that in context, the much touted disparity
between West and East Germany
that helped inspire the toppling of the Berlin Wall
was an income ratio of three to one in favor of the West.
The shock so many North Korean defectors feel upon reaching
the South is entirely unsurprising.
Many people have tried to predict where North Korea will go,
and many people have been wrong.
For now, North Korea is here to stay.
It shows no sign of imminent collapse,
and no one has the inclination
to force it over the edge either.
Still, its economic failures and its inability to keep up
with a changing world Might one day spell the end
for this peculiar little country,
or at least for its government.